"Physics works, and I am still alive.". nan. My prof did this and this kid fell backwards from leaning in his chair right when the block was getting near his face and scared the shit out of the whole class. I watched a clip a few years back of a similar demonstration but the lecturer gave it an extra nudge and the ball hit the student in the face.

Edit: the student moved forward.

Source: https://youtu.be/teqsNtYbJAY. Before you try this at home to show off for your kids, there is an important detail! He focuses on the 'initial speed' - can't give it a *push* when you let go or it'll hit you in the face. What he *fails* to drill in is that the initial **height** is even more important, and easier to get wrong.

If you leave any real slack in that line when you release the ball, it will run into your chin. That's because it comes up to roughly the *height* it was dropped from, but at the end of the wire; this puts it closer to you than the point where you released it from.. My physics prof showed us the meaning of pressure (force per area) in a very similar way.  He lay down on the table with a large piece of plywood on his chest. Then his assistant hit him, i.e. the plywood, with a sledgehammer.

The direct force of the hammer would have killed him, if it had only affected the area of the hammer's head. But distributed over the area of the wooden board, it did not even hurt.

Shout out to the assistant who "invented" this and many other very intuitive demonstrations and experiments!. [deleted]. Question. What if there was an earthquake at that moment and either the building moved his face forward or the ball got moved by the earthquake?. Physics is a lie put out by the government, to trick the masses into believing the earth is round and that we've been to the moon.

/s. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVSYA1RnSMQ. I am a mechanical engineer and industrial designer. 

I know just enough math and physics that I might need to use in those domains.

I have still watched most of his available  lectures on yourtube. He is one of the best teachers I have ever encountered.. I'd love to hollow out the ball and build a little circuit inside with a swinging mass that would amplify the swing each time, just to mess people up.. is this at uni level? what do the students learn in secondary level (middle school)? do they just learn what the 3 states of matter are and call it a day?. This is fantastic! I was lucky enough to be introduced to Walter Lewin by my professor when I was in highschool. We used to watch many of his demonstrations even if it was in a different language, I'm Italian. Made studying physics much more enjoyable and made me love it. Thank you Walter!. Physics teachers are the best, they have way more chaotic energy than any other type of teacher. This guy is one of those teachers who loves to teach.. Great lecturer, somehow ended as someone with sexual misconduct charges and disses someone on YouTube for having an engineering degree. I love the looks in the student’s faces.. That wasn’t as satisfying as I hoped it would be. While watching it without sound, taking forever to get to the end lol. Correction: “I work, and Physics is still alive”. What the hell, this was in my YouTube recommendations today and here it is now!. I stan professors who are actually passionate in teaching. The world needs more of them.. This guy made me fall in love with physics and I shall ever be always grateful to him for that <3. Why is this guy still famous? He’s a proven creep. The arguments that some people give about his lectures still being a valuable educational resource are completely inept... it’s not at all analogous to art made by a creepy person (which is not a can of worms I’m trying to open right now, not passing judgement on that one either way) because there is nothing unique about them. I’m a mathematical physics grad student and I can tell you for a fact that there are so many (better! free!) online resources to learn this material.. This guys name is Walter Lewin, HE IS HALARIOUS! "I am still alive" lmao! You can check out most of his lecture on youtube! Here is the channel! Happy learning!  [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCiEHVhv0SBMpP75JbzJShqw](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCiEHVhv0SBMpP75JbzJShqw). God I love him, he’s the only reason I even started caring about physics. physics is awesome. Love it. What a great proffessor:). Professor be like: 
>This is no joke...

Class: *wheeze*. This is no joke. \-TA pushes ball. One of my science professors in high school actually did this experiment but he put the object next to his balls ( not his chin). That was such an hilarious moment!. He knows how to build suspense and interest. Gotta sell it.. imagine if the laws of physics changed for a second. i love his lectures. Awesome!. [almost the same....](https://www.reddit.com/r/yesyesyesyesno/comments/gnf6mr/beautiful_demonstration_of_conservation_of_energy/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf). Reminds me of Contact every time.  "But would you use your faith to take one step further?". An earthquake happens and adds kinetic energy to the system. Even if Vo is non-zero the ball still will not "crush" his chin because it will only have a tiny amount of extra KE, the amount his fingertip gave the ball, so it would just be a "little kiss" not a crushing blow.. What happens if the cable snaps just before the ball gets back to him?. I like how he still flinches when he know it won’t hit him🤦🏽‍♂️🤷🏽‍♂️. Skin in the game.. He could have pushed it nothing would have happend. He would not have recieved any more force than he applied.. Wanna bet he tested it the first time. Before class. Imagine he just got hit by the ball after walking a few steps. love this guy. Is he dutch?. The real question is, why was he grimacing?. He's only alive in this branch of the multiverse. Does anyone actually get anything out of these demonstrations. If you’re a physics teacher and don’t do this, you’re a pussy.. One of the many videos everyone should have seen before. Ive never really liked this demonstration and im not tryna be that guy but when the ball is at max height all of its kinetic energy will have been transferd into potential right?. Well air resistance helped too since there is no perfect conservation of energy.. An oldie but a goodie.. Instead of $ class buy me a beer at a dive bar and I'll show you the same thing. Using a ring attached to rope with a hook on the wall. The ball starts with zero energy, and as it returns it approaches zero energy again.
At most, if he nudged it a little bit by accident he would have felt a little nudge when it returned.

I dont think he needs to make it sound like he's risking his dang life; he's not even in danger unless he were to move to the bottom of the swing where it has the most energy.

**kinetic. The entire class shidded and fardded, lives were lost. Seems like a pretty big liability to do this demo with an actual student that may very well lean in or give the ball a nudge.. This is gold.

Edit: thanks for the gold, anonymous redditor 😎. Yeesh, there’s a reason Walter Lewin puts his head against a wall for this demonstration.. Physics works, and she is not alive!. I just came for this. Reddit works!. I have always wondered how many professors/high school physics teachers have decided to try this demo and failed because of either pushing it, moving forward, or leaving slack in the line.. RIP to the ones caught in trial and error😓😓😓. [deleted]. Plot twist: like Wile E. Coyote, the assistant invented those to try to kill the professor but failed every time.. Another extreme version of this is lying down on a bed of nails. But that’s more of a circus/TV thing rather than a professor thing.. What was the sexual misconduct. those seem pretty different.. I didnt know about his misconduct and thats so unfortunate :( I really enjoyed all his lectures on youtube when I was a college student.. Jesus!
He's sorta a physics god in my country !. > using a phrase "someone with a master's degree" as a way to discredit someone.

I've got the perfect comeback if someone tries that on me: my dad did his habilitation in mathematics.. Oh, that dispute with ElectroBOOM... I interpreted what Walter Lewin said to mean “I’m surprised someone with such high education would misunderstand such a simple principle”. Granted, I haven’t seen every video in the back-and-forth, so I don’t have complete certainty in my interpretation.. [removed]. [deleted]. honestly, in physics a master degree is literally worth nothing.  
In fact, it is probably worth less than nothing.. What does /s mean?. I didn't learn a single thing about physics in HIGH school.  There was a physics class yes, but it was only for people who were basically leaning towards that major.. And as I learned today, other things too.... I was hoping the call would lightly “boop” his chin :(. > it’s not at all analogous to art made by a creepy person (which is not a can of worms I’m trying to open right now, not passing judgement on that one either way) because there is nothing unique about them.

The material may not be unique, but the presentation can be. Being a good teacher is a lot more than just spouting off a bunch of facts.. Post links. I thought I heard him speak English with a Dutch tongue. Nice to see I was right.... You probably shouldn't Google what he got into trouble for then. Or it glitched.... Why are you being downvoted?. There's physics but there's also instinct, lmao. There aren't branches with impossible outcomes. Conservation of energy will never break. It's fun and it's always nice to see principles in action. If you learn from books and lecture notes 99% of the time, a change of perspective is very welcome. No need to be so serious.. They can, if you ask students to make a prediction beforehand and then follow up after they see the result. But I think a lot of demos are done as "wow this looks cool!" and left at that.. Nope, that's why we had that one credit physics lab.  The damndest thing, it was like an extra $250 per credit.. *mechanical. Richard Feynman was known to do this in his lectures. I've seen this experiment go wrong a few times. 

The two things people do wrong - they either lean forward slightly and get bashed in the face or they give it a push when releasing it thus making it come back farther than the release distance (good tip is to always hold it from the back and drag your hand down and never hold it from the sides or front ever.) 

Putting your head on the wall is dangerous, but it's also useful because if your head is always pressing on the wall - you haven't moved forward (safer demo would be to simply have a piece of wood with a bar you stand on with your head always touching rather than potentially crushing your face with a solid wall.)

But yeah, he actually is risking life in the event that he puts speed into the thing and stands against the wall. Though people have survived worse. Still, at his age breaking his face/skull probably not the healthiest thing. If he wasn't against a wall - it'd only be fairly bad to get wacked in the face with it.

Also the best tip - don't let students do it. In fact, don't let teachers do it. Just use a stick or an egg or something for the demonstration in the first place. There's no reason to risk someone fucking it up and getting hurt.. And then Albert Einstein clapped Hitler. [removed]. haha, jupp. Physics works, but students don't.. Maybe, but it would only hurt so much as they push it.. [deleted]. That's what humility and "taking the birdie" are for. I would hope most people that demonstrate can troubleshoot what went wrong the first time it happens... But then again, hope can be deceptive.... Thank god they used the flat side. That scared the shit out of me. [deleted]. Some details here. That's a big "yikes" from me.

[https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/01/23/complainant-unprecedented-walter-lewin-sexual-harassment-case-comes-forward](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/01/23/complainant-unprecedented-walter-lewin-sexual-harassment-case-comes-forward). Yeah, the master's thing isn't nearly as bad but he was going straight after one of my favorite YouTubers (electroboom - check him out if you like anything related to electronics!) which kind of hurt. i was surprised when this incident broke out damn man. lesson: dont idolize people. people are corruptible.. [deleted]. [removed]. [deleted]. Depends on what you want to do. For certain jobs, a Masters is all you need -- for example, my uncle works as a medical physicist and never attempted a PhD. This is changing a bit nowadays, though.. It's not a failed attempt if you choose to get a background in physics via a master's, then go for a PhD in a related field, i.e. atmospheric physics.. In Northern Europe (Germany + Nordics at least), "undergrad" goes all the way till MS and BSc is the "dropout degree". Then if you go for a PhD program you don't have many courses left, it's mostly a research+thesis thing.. you straight up suck. it means that the statement was sarcastic. Sure, I agree with you. Feynman’s lectures for example offer a deep and unique perspective on basic physics. Walter Lewin’s do not. He teaches basic mechanics and E&M with nothing extra or special. Besides bringing in props that keep people who are only interested in physics at the pop sci level engaged, but this is reddit so of course that’s what counts.. Not that guy but this was pretty huge news at the time and got a lot of traction here. Here's a link with some info: https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2015/01/23/complainant-unprecedented-walter-lewin-sexual-harassment-case-comes-forward. https://theoreticalminimum.com/courses

https://www.khanacademy.org/science/physics
Kind of basic but that’s exactly the level that Lewin teaches at. Roughly high school AP physics C. 

https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/ 
The original home of Lewin’s lectures, but it has numerous versions of every basic physics courses recorded with problem sets and lecture notes etc. They removed his lectures a long time ago. They also have many advanced physics courses too

https://www.perimeterinstitute.ca/training/perimeter-scholars-international/psi-lectures
These are pretty advanced but fantastic. 

These are not exactly what I talked about, but these are both fantastic resources for lecture notes:

https://dec41.user.srcf.net/notes/

http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/tong/teaching.html. Oh no.. what he do?. Yeah probably has something to do with him being a total creep.. there are branches in which  he lunches the ball with a speed>0. If something is exhibiting harmonic motion in a harmonic oscillators Hamiltonian then it is not in an energy eigenstate, it is in a coherent state.  So actually, it's possible for the energy to end up higher than the expectation value of the energy.

Of course the probability that it would actually make a difference is very very low. He's not in a controlled environment.  There are branches where a velociraptor disembowels him, or the earth swallows him.. Human beings respond viscerally to things that they can see and touch, Data. It becomes more real to them.. Practical learning is best learning. The cool factor and break from learning is good, but I cant believe  that any student would guess that it would suddenly speed up and smack them in the face. Why not have an actually useful demo?. Using an egg shows that you’re not confident in the underlying principles.. High school physics teacher has the bowling bowl up year round hanging from the ceiling. Would use for demos, or sometimes just to break up a lectures monotony and many of us would do it for fun. People do often lean in slightly when no longer holding the bowling bowl weight.... “Mein cheeks!”. They didn't call him Einstein for nothing. [removed]. Just started undergraduate research for the first time. Am broken, can confirm.. Yup! Or in this case where she released it properly but moved forwards about six inches, that's basically the equivalent of her releasing the ball from the original spot and standing about six inches in front of it. A light BOPP is the most she'd get. Startled and maybe a little bruised, as long as she doesn't lead with her nose.. What?. And she is still alive.. [deleted]. Um why do you think he is trying to discredit him by saying he has a masters degree? It sounds to me like he's saying it more along the lines of "you have a masters, you should know better" :). Very yikes. I didn't know the degree to which this misconduct was. Pretty horrifying.. wow, can't look at video with the same enthusiasm anymore. What an asshole. Damn. I really don't get how people could do that kind of thing.. Lewin is such a good presenter that at this point he's like Michael Jackson to me. Yes, he's a sexual predator who deserves to never be around young people again, but his work is phenomenal and I'd encourage anyone to seek it out.. [deleted]. I call these types of things generation gap issues. Social and legal norms changed so rapidly that the social and legal norms people grew up with are no longer what they are currently. I see this in my dad all the time. And people keep pushing for change to happen even faster.. habilitation > doctoral degree > master's degree. [deleted]. [deleted]. I'm just giving insight bro.. Ah thanks. I’ve been wondering for quite some time now haha. Maybe, I'm not that familiar with his lectures. Funny you bring up Feynman though, since he said/did some things to women that probably would be seen as creepy today.. Not another news link. Links to the free and better resources than Lewin's stuff.. Sexual misconduct. Who?. [deleted]. Prove it. > I cant believe that any student would guess that it would suddenly speed up and smack them in the face

Teach intro physics, put that question on an exam, and report back. However, you have a point. There are other energy conservation demos out there that are probably more useful.. I'm confident in the underlying principles. I'm not confident in the chaotic environment that overlay those principles and I care more about the safety of people than the necessity to "man up" my physics like some toxic asshole.

 The physical principles will stand on it's own and it's good to let your students know - variables outside of things exist in the real world and to take precautions because people matter. In fact, you might even demonstrate those two fuck ups to let people know - when you get overconfident with ideal simplifications, people can get hurt or die. So know your physics, but also be mindful how you use physics in your environment - ask yourself what can go wrong and try to minimize the chance of external error and influence.

I'd rather not clean up an eggs or break shit either.. i dont get it. Big if!. You win again gravity!. They might have some good ones on /r/lectures as well.. [deleted]. [deleted]. If you ask Lewin the degree of his misconduct was likely master's. But this is more akin to PhD degree of misconduct.. Except MJ was never proved to be a sexual predator. I thought the FBI found Jackson innocent. This is not sufficient? From the article:

"To confirm her identity, Harbi provided a copy of the letter addressed to her from MIT announcing the results of the investigation. She is now coming forward because she is concerned the case will be forgotten.". Your dad asked students half his age for naked pics?. People can change if they care to bother.. [deleted]. [deleted]. That's a US-specific thing. For example in a Scandinavian type system, a BSc would be a failed attempt at a Master's (BSc was only introduced as an intermediate step to make the degree structures compatible with the Bologna system, it didn't exist at all before a few decades ago). MSc is usually a requirement for enrolling in a PhD program there. Whereas failing at PhD would get you nothing to walk home with.

Just in case you need to do HR work in the future - if the applicant is from Northern Europe and has a Master's, that's exactly what he went to college for. And in general, please don't assume that other countries (Iran in Mendhi's case) would have the exact same degree structure that your local university system has.. Yeah he was a known misogynist, not defending that. It’s still not the same as sexual misconduct, there is a gap in wrongness there. But the other point is that feynmans lectures are unique and even artistic so it’s definitely trickier with him than Lewin. It’s hard to imagine boycotting his pedagogical books, because his work in physics is here to stay whether any person likes it or not so it seems kind of pointless to take a half measure.. Well shit. Just because they are adults, doesnt mean there was no harassment. Harrassment is a function of power, not age.. I didn’t call him a rapist, I specifically called him a creep. No one on this thread has said anything besides sexual misconduct. Someone seems a bit eager to defend his’lords honor. You honestly don't find what he did creepy?. wow! this sub was the last place I expected to find such an audience. Copenhagen is irrational. Theres no risk if you do it yourself and you don’t do something stupid. And if you can’t control your own stupidity within such a controlled demonstration than, yea, I guess don’t do it. Be boring haha.. If you really needed to cover the “chaotic” enviornment, you or I could calculate the energy losses of the ball from air resistance, and make a simple apparatus to let go of the ball with no initial velocity. The thing is, for this experiment, “chaos” is a very tiny noise. We can quantify just about everything in this scenario. As long as a crow does’t ram the ball at high speed on the backstroke, you could quanitfy it. And I would also never let a student take part in the demonstration. These demonstrations just don’t show conservation of energy, they show students, with their own eyes, that nature will behave how those equations in their textbooks say.. Wait, wasn't he just harrassing online female visitors of his lectures? What did he do that should result in him going to jail?. Still not cool, but I got the sense he genuinely misunderstood and thought he was responding to a crackpot. Probably had a flood of students telling him "this guy with a master's said Faraday's law is wrong." 

For me, this argument alone wouldn't be enough to condemn him. Although it does make me curious: was this part of a broader pattern of him shutting down criticism?

Either way, this pales in comparison to the sexual misconduct stuff. Abusing a position of power and trust like that is so gross.. Why the snark? I didn't say he was innocent. He's still condescending because he implies that electroboom is not smart enough for his master's degree. But the statement "he has a master's degree" and "he's a flat earther" are in no way the same because one has a positive connotation (which is used by Lewin to imply electroboom doesn't deserve this positive connotation, kind of mean) but the other has a default negative connotation, meant to encourage you to discard someone's viewpoints entirely (in the vein of "oh but they are religious so they can't think for themselves anyway"). So those are not the same thing. I'm not trying to argue whether Lewin's a good person, just trying to correct what I saw as a misunderstanding.. Dude. There were magazines found with both his semen and childrens semen on it. In his home. They were only removed from trial on a technicality.. [deleted]. I love MJ's art and always will, but just because you beat a charge doesn't mean you didn't do the underlying acts.. ... Really? No.

Did you read what I wrote? I said "these types of things". For this specific type of thing, in a past era this would just be considered the norm. Like hitting on waitresses and what not.. You must have a masters degree. My dad actually did his habilitation in mathematics.  Not a joke.. > did michael jordan have a failed attempt at another championship when he retired

If he entered into the competition, but retired halfway through, then yes.

I think everyone's using different definitions of "Failed" here. Entering into a PhD programme has the goal of achieving the PhD, and not achieving that is *failing to complete the programme*.

What it is not is in any way derogatory.. [deleted]. I don’t follow. You got downvoted, so I brought you back up. Copenhagen is irrational. Many worlds theory is so much cleaner and is the only theory without added ingredients or “hidden variables”. Nothing is more simple than a universal wave function following Schrodingers wave formula.. [deleted]. Not guilty doesn't mean innocent.. I don’t think the FBI investigated OJ for like 10 years.. There was never any credible evidence brought against him. The borderline inappropriate acts he did were easily explained by the fact that he was a weird dude who had a fucked up childhood.. When would soliciting naked pictures of your students have been considered normal?. [deleted]. But that's just not a good comeback. What does your dad's academic degree say about you and your qualification?. You are still wrong. It would be impossible to get an MSc by failing any PhD program in my university - because MSc is a prerequisite for application here.

In Scandinavia, you are in it to get a MSc. BSc is the award for dropping out. Many employers here have policies against hiring BScs for permanent positions, because most BScs go back to complete their degree.. Look up the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. It’s very messy and unintuitive. That’s what he is referring to.. The point is, that's not illegal. It's just gross.  The consequences should be social and professional rather than involving the criminal justice system.. [deleted]. Ancient Greece?. You're really focusing on this point... These people are both adults. There's a huge difference between "not normal" and "socially outrageous". Getting things for sexual favors happened a lot in the past. In fact it was one of the first things that gave women power over men. Between then and now there's a continuum of many things.

I'm not objecting to how things are now. I'm objecting to the outrage at older people who got blindsided by change happening around them too quickly and us not accounting for and understanding that. It's called nuance and it's ALWAYS missing in these types of discussions. There are more colors than black and white to things.. No problem - glad you on your way to a noble profession MrNiceBalls. Nothing. But it tells people that I'm not impressed by people who "merely" have a doctorate.. [deleted]. But it’s still not a proof. It might lend weight to the idea, but it’s not proof. Yeah you know everything that happened and what he was and wasn't capable of.. The biggest reason that your argument isn't valid for this scenario is that this is a student-teacher relationship. You're making the argument that soliciting nudes from another adult wasn't out of the norms several years ago. But this isn't just two adults. I can definitely tell you that "these types of things" were definitely still taboo back then.. /r/rimjob_steve. Ok, but in my opinion that doesn't make your comeback any better. Promotion is something you probably worked hard for and you can be proud of. The same goes for getting your master's degree, but still he has achieved something you haven't achieved yet. That doesn't give him the right to look down on you and don't take your opinion seriously, but you cannot discredit his achievement by saying that he hasn't yet reached the highest level either.. Not everyone will attempt to get a PhD, so why would an MSc be indicative of a failed PhD? By and large, MScs in my country end up working somewhere else than research, so it's not like a majority of them would try to get a PhD.

Mendhi is an engineer, hardly someone who would ever get much use for the PhD vs. the five years of professional experience in the meantime. So it's very unlikely that he would have ever attempted a PhD.

Edit: oh I see, it's the specific user who did not finish his program. Alright, there you're right, sorry for bothering :). You’re certainly correct. This is still a heated debate between the worlds top physicists in QM. Well among the ones who actually care about the fundamentals and not just the number crunching to find results. 

But in simplicity the many worlds approach is hands down the winner (if you can swallow the big pill that the universe branches into multiple universes every time a particle interacts with its environment). I mean it doesn’t feel like the universe is branching all the time right? But what would that even feel like? It’s like when people thought the sun revolved around the earth every 24 hours. Why did they think that? Because that’s what it looked like. But what would it look like if the earth spun on its axis? That’s an analogy used when people think it just doesn’t seem right to have a branching universe.

It really is a fascinating subject and I hope I’m alive to see many more breakthroughs! I just want them to find a grand unified theory already lol.. [deleted]. You didn't read my post.. [deleted]. What claims did I make? The person I responded to said he literally knew what mj did and what he was and wasn't capable of. Idk what happened. Neither does he. That's all I said. So don't tell me Im making claims that mj was guilty.. There is evidence, but it was removed from trial. Technically there is no evidence that Epstein was murdered.... I mean I did....I'm arguing that this is a case where it was both not normal AND socially outrageous.. Oh sorry! I misunderstood you!. First, you said "several years ago" which is way more recent than I'm talking. I'm talking 80s, 70s, 60s and earlier. Walter Lewin was born in the 1936. That's before World War 2. He grew up in Nazi occupied The Netherlands and his grandparents (who were Jewish) disappeared during the war. That's an ENTIRELY different upbringing than anyone in the modern world knows anything about. The recency bias here is ridiculous.. You're right I incorrectly said several. I meant to say many. Just the wrong word. My comment was aimed at norms from many years ago. Nothing about WW2 matters for this argument..  I don't think anyone's great grandmother (or grandmother) would consider this 'normal' if her teacher in 50s asked her for her nude photos.. Again, we're not talking about children. 1927 group photo of some of the top minds in the history of science and physics.. nan. Back: Auguste Piccard, Émile Henriot, Paul Ehrenfest, Édouard Herzen, Théophile de Donder, Erwin Schrödinger, JE Verschaffelt, Wolfgang Pauli, Werner Heisenberg, Ralph Fowler, Léon Brillouin.

Middle: Peter Debye, Martin Knudsen, William Lawrence Bragg, Hendrik Anthony Kramers, Paul Dirac, Arthur Compton, Louis de Broglie, Max Born, Niels Bohr.

Front: Irving Langmuir, Max Planck, Marie Curie, Hendrik Lorentz, Albert Einstein, Paul Langevin, Charles-Eugène Guye, CTR Wilson, Owen Richardson.

Source:
https://rarehistoricalphotos.com/solvay-conference-probably-intelligent-picture-ever-taken-1927/. [deleted]. I like how the Wolfgang Pauli and Werner Heisenberg are in their late 20s but everyone else is middle aged or older.  They look kind of smug about being the youngest guys there haha.. The facebook background of every physics freshmann.. I went there and got a pic! https://i.imgur.com/G8CyLys.jpg It's in Brussels. . I've seen this picture a million times, but always in black and white. Looks even better with the colors! . And then there's Marie Curie.. Where's Von Neumann?. Back: Gean-Luc Picard, Émile Henriot, Paul Ehrenfestival, Édouard Herzen, Théophile de Donder, Erwin Schrödinger, GE Verschaffelt, Wolfgang 'I'm not Fermi' Pauli, Werner 'Uncertainty' Heisenberg, Ralphie Fowler, Léon Brillouin.

Middle: Peter Debye, Martin Knudsen, William Lawrence Bragg, Hendrik Anthony Kramers, cariD luaP, Arthur 'Straight Outta' Compton, Louis de Broglie-wavelength, Max Born to be alive, Niels Bohrn to be alive.

Front: Irving Langmuir, Max Danck, Murie Curie, Hendrik 'Right-hand rule' Lorentz, Alberto Einstein, Paul Langevin, Charles-Eugène Guye, ~~CTR Wilson, Owen Richardson~~, Owen Wilson, CTRichardson.. Who would be in that photo, if it were taken today?. I think this is the most extraordinary collection of talent, of human knowledge, that has ever been gathered at the White House - with the possible exception of when Thomas Jefferson dined alone.   
--John F. Kennedy
. I'm in quantum mechanics right now (if anyone out there is a murderer, give me 12 hours notice and I will write you into my will), so I've seen this picture a lot over the past month. 

My favorite bit from this is that when Schrodinger arrived, Bohr was at the train station and they immediately started arguing about how they should interpret quantum mechanics. . The real Dream Team . Almost all of them have mustaches . That look on Heisenberg's face: "I might be here.". You, sir, are a legend. This is the first time a saw a colorized version of this picture!. Damn it, Pauli, you looked away! We're never going to get everyone to line up again now.. Can’t remember if it’s this photo or another just like it, but isn’t it from when they were discussing the credibility on the new theory concerning electrons and how they circulate atoms.. enrico fermi missing.. For anyone intesrested, [this](https://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0609184) book has translated minutes from the conference.. What are they looking at? It seems there are like three different points being looked at, none of them the camera taking the photo.. Legend says if you stare at this photo for long enough, you will gain +10 IQ and 5 IQ as bonus.. I can help but notice that the post title implies that physics is not a science. It's like saying that this is a photo of several physicists and a female.. Ooh, physics AND science!. I like how the older gentleman are wearing the older style shirt collars. . Dirac stands out so much in this. Just in his own little world. . We largely learn about these people/their contributions separately and it becomes easy to forget their contributions are all from the same generation.  Pretty much the entire basis of modern physics came from this picture.

. Someone has been watching University Challenge tonight. We had a huge poster of this in my VLSI  lab and I still remember the awe of turning my head up at 2am while working all-nighters and being just overwhelmed by the sheer awesomeness.. marie curie has always been such a hero to me. wow . Top row third from the right looks like he is thinking about what wearing skin feels like..... . Marvel: "Infinity war is the most ambitious crossover ever"
.... Did Marie Currie have enough radiation around her that she was sending off radiation around other people? . "A great day in Harlem". Not to sound like a nazi, but if we were to have only nobel prize winners have offspring with other nobel prize winners (or any distinguished scientist/mathematician) what would the average IQ be generations later (of their offspring tree)? Would the IQ decrease to the mean on average or would they essentially create a new species after n generations? . Yeah, sure. White men are the only contributors to higher thought. This picture is just a reminder of how they credit themselves. . Electrifying!. Along with Lemaitres and Englerts discoveries, this is probably one of the greatest scientific achievements in Belgium. Kind of proud!. Back when "Top Minds" was not an ironic appellation.. No Thomas T Brown? No Viktor schauberger? No Tesla? . Heisenberg looks lile grown up Tezz from Incredibles. Could you imagine the intense conversations. Is that the conference where Mr Front and Center went off on quantum mechanics (90 ish years ago)?

[PhysicsToday thinks it was](https://physicstoday.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/1.3502549); 2010.. Poor Wolfgang Pauli, never got the memo... . Wish I was around back then. You could have a BM discover a new scientific law or math principal. I'm not downplaying their achievements just saying discovering something new now is like finding a needle in a haystack without knowing where in the galaxy said haystack is.. That top mind in the middle bottom row with the hair?

Michael Scott.. It's from r/colorizedhistory. Also some of the greatest facial hair in history . Top... Minds.... [removed]. So many incredible brains in one photo.. I wonder if someone has come up with the idea of doing a modern version...maybe in the year 2027 . Look at all those white men . 17/29 people in this photograph are sporting a mustache . It's almost entirely guaranteed that at least 75-80% of these fuckers are the most obnoxious and egotistic maniacs of their time. Goddamn I can't wait for the time when a person becomes a Nobel Prize winning scientist who is happy to admit when they fuck up. Every one of these shitheads thought so highly of their theories they refused to accept the theories of others. Take Einstein and quantum mechanics as an obvious example. Academia has a reputation for egotistic shitters and the worst part is people look up to them. . Total IQ of the people on the picture is greater than that of the rest of the world.. My science teacher has a laminated cutout of this picture from a newspaper. I want this framed!. Before Brussels was a "hellhole". My lovely desktop wallpaper . Reddit has ruined me. "Top minds" means something entirely different nowadays.. incomplete without tesla . [removed]. Such eligance. Such poise. Such tweed.. He's not in this picture, but the great physicist Falco Lombardi once took a group photo with the man in the middle of this picture.  He was no fool -- he wanted to sit next to the greatest mind in physics -- so he famously secured his place by shouting, "Hey, Einstein, I'm on *your* side!". Racist! How dare you brag about any group of people as white as that as being superior with knowledge.

Jay Kay!. [removed]. Of Course, Nikola Tesla is missing.... Unacceptable . Notice how every single person is a white male. I see this picture and I have goosebumps. Amazing. I feel as though our friend Albert Einstein was in the 1800s…. This feels so weird to look at. I can't really explain why, but the more I see this picture the more I just broke into a smile. 

Those people literally help create modern physics and chemistry, and more. And they all live within a generation.. With rough ages at the time, as a curiousity:

Back: Auguste Piccard (43), Émile Henriot (42), Paul Ehrenfest (47), Édouard Herzen (50), Théophile de Donder (55), Erwin Schrödinger (40), JE Verschaffelt (57), Wolfgang Pauli (27), Werner Heisenberg (26), Ralph Fowler (38), Léon Brillouin (38).

Middle: Peter Debye (43), Martin Knudsen (56), William Lawrence Bragg (37), Hendrik Anthony Kramers (33), Paul Dirac (25), Arthur Compton (35), Louis de Broglie (35), Max Born (45), Niels Bohr (42).

Front: Irving Langmuir (46), Max Planck (69), Marie Curie (60), Hendrik Lorentz (74; died the next year), Albert Einstein (48), Paul Langevin (55), Charles-Eugène Guye (61), CTR Wilson (58), Owen Richardson (48).

EDIT: Also, if you compare the colorized picture in this post, and the picture you linked to, they are slightly different! Notice especially, Pauli.. Man. If there were a jeopardy of physics history I bet you could crush it
. > Wilson, Owen

Thank you for adding the list, but I'm not going to lie ...my mind went "Wait ...What? as I was reading the final 2 names in the front row.. The QM all star team.. and then they all stood up and went to their labs or libraries. i dont know together how many billions of concepts, ideas, theories, equations etch they might have introduced to the world.. Was Auguste Piccard the inspiration for Capt. Jean Luc Piccard?. Wow, talk about a powerhouse line up. I see hitler in there. Also how well they dress. Have you seen a natural sciences department or conference group photo in recent times? I guess the naked everyday masses of the future will consider it formal wear, maybe.. Add in everyone in history that laid the foundation of physical science. Maybe not even 3 times bigger.. You forgot Paul Dirac (25), the youngest!

. Pauli looks pretty cute in this photo, honestly :)

Never seen him young before. You look awfully pale here. Please see a doctor.. It has been [colorized](https://www.reddit.com/r/ColorizedHistory/comments/871yxp/the_most_intelligent_picture_ever_taken/), the B&W is the original.. She's an inspiration. First woman to win a nobel prize and still only 1 of 2 women given the honor. Women still have it pretty hard in STEM so I cannot fathom the adversity she faced. . Marie Curie is a straight baller. She’s the only person to have ever won two Nobel prizes in two difference sciences. She’s also the first and only woman to have two Nobel prizes. She’s honestly such an inspiration to me. Whenever I feel down because some guy has said something moderately sexist to me in a lab, I think of Marie Curie and the crap she probably had to deal with, and still kicked ass. . YES THANK YOU. Still writing his thesis when this was taken probably. He was only 24 at the time.. I had a professor who worked at Los Alamos most of his career and was teaching fluid modelling.  He was covering artificial viscosity and mentioned that he had met Von Neumann on one occasion, and I asked "as in Von Neumann architecture?". My professor said "Yah, he's the one.  He did a lot of other things that we can't talk about that you wouldn't really like"

Edit: spelling. Von Neumann was only about 24 at the time, and the youngest person in that picture is Paul Dirac at about 25. Not that a year is much of a difference, but you can see that he would have been especially young. 1927 was also basically von Neumann's breakout year in publishing important quantum mechanics papers, so there may not have been enough time for him to have a large impact by the time the conference was being planned. I think he was David Hilbert's assistant at the time, and it seems to me like Hilbert would also probably have been at the conference but he had become ill a couple years earlier. Oppenheimer, who would have been about 23, had just gotten his PhD under Born in 1927 and published the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, and may have been in a similar situation, slightly too young to be invited. Enrico Fermi, about 26, was also young but prominent at the time, maybe in the same boat. Satyendra Bose, about 33, would have probably been very appropriate, too, but I'm guessing he wasn't invited or didn't come because he was in Bangladesh.. >Gean-Luc Picard

make it so! . dude you made my day lmao. I count 14 Nobel Laureates in Physics, either already won, or would eventually win? Maybe 15 if "Murie" Curie is the 1903 joint award?. Steven Weinberg, Sheldon Glashow, Kip Thorne, Peter Higgs, at the very least. Pity that most well-recognized physicists are either involved in particle physics or cosmology so that it almost seems that most others fields are overlooked . Not Hawking. I'd put Higgs in there. wut

Thomas Jefferson doesn't compare against any single one of these dudes.. Jefferson couldn’t run a farm without slaves. . I'd like to tell you that it will get easier.  But that would be a cruel lie. :p. Clearly, that's the trouble with physics today - not enough mustaches.. I might be the one who knocks. "everyone look in a random directions to confuse future generations" . Is that why I feel more stupid?   
Probably the Dunning–Kruger effect.. Came here to say this. I love Heisenberg, but when I see pictures of him I just think "supervillain" . I just want to say your question was valid and I’m glad you asked if it peaked your curiosity!. being irradiated isn't the same as being radio active you knob. . Have you seen *The Terminal* (Tom Hanks, 2004). It has elements of randomness. Of course the average IQ of the offsprings would be above average, they would not necessarily but as high as their parents. The randomness is seen from the fact that not all of the parents of the people in the photo are as smart as them. Actually Ralph H Fowler, one of the gentleman in the photo, married Ernest Rutherford's daughter. Their children were not particularly smart. Usually nepo kids, even on science, tend to be dissapointments. [removed]. There’s a hi res version on Wikipedia, I sent to some online service and got it printed, framed it and now it hangs in my living room.. [deleted]. [removed]. Almost! Marie Curie was there. Still exclusively white and overwhelmingly male.. It was 1929, it was not a time of tolerance for women for ethnic minorities in Europe, where I'm assuming this is from the significant european population of it. Although I don't know all of them.. Are you trying to suggest white men are superior because the greatest **European** scientists are white?. Your point? . Europeans tend to be white. I completely agree, it’s humbling. 

If you follow the link that I posted, it gives a couple of paragraphs for each scientist pictured, explaining their contributions to physics and beyond. That really hits the point home.. They lived within a generation because the discoveries were coming together all at once.  Once they got past Newton's determinism, it was like a flood of new knowledge which built upon itself.  For example, when Erwin Schrödinger developed his famous equation  in 1926 relating wave-particle duality, among other things, it was largely because de Broglie first resolved wave-particle duality in 1923. My belief is that, were Schrödinger not to discover it, someone else would have not much later.

This is not to say the individuals in this photo are not all geniuses.  They are.  Rather it is to point out Newton's famous quote: "If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants." (Newton didn't actually originate this line though he is the most famous for using it.). Yet none of them look happy.. Heisenberg looks like a mad scientist ready to steal everyone’s work for himself. Let me be clear, I googled this for everyone’s convenience, I can’t even remember what I had for tea last night.. "Hold on Alex, let me google this real quick!"

Don't think they allow you to google sources on Jeopardy, nor would you have the time.. [deleted]. Some are wearing formal leather boots with their suits, all of the shoes have been polished to a shine.

Bow ties, mustaches, vests, wing-tipped shirt collars, waxed and styled hairdos and bowler hats are still in. Several have pocket watches fashionably clipped across their vests and you can see a few men in the front row are holding cigars. The man sitting on the immediate right of Einstein has a waxed 
walrus mustache.

Look at the way that the men sitting down cross their legs in a way that is considered womanly today.

Non of the people in the photograph look as if they are overweight in the slightest, they all seem to be within a healthy weight range.

The hats have ribbons tied around them, some of the ribbons end in tidy bows. Marie Curie's hat has a large scarf tied around it.. Taking photographs used to be a formal occasion, my friend. People would get into their Sunday best for [a casual selfie](https://thenypost.files.wordpress.com/2013/10/haroldcazneaux.jpg?quality=90&strip=all&w=295), never mind a group photograph with their gathered colleagues.. That's just how people dressed then. Jeans were still basically only worn by the trades they were first associated with, for example. . Even so, you’d most likely never get to her level just because you’re both women.. Literally my hero . So he had already invented 70 new fields of math and CS and physics. What was that supposed to mean?. And Feynman was 9 at the time , repairing radios. I'm surprised Arthur Eddington isn't there to be honest.. /r/jesuschristreddit. Too soon. Genius wears different hats.... As a physicist, definitely not. As a person who changed the world in profound and beneficial ways, I think Jefferson has done more than many of these very impressive people. . Idk why you have downvotes, TJ was a pedophile and slave owner.  He doesn't really deserve any sympathy. Quantum definitely just gets worse 😂. I appreciate that. Well her supplies all still have radiation, it stands to reason that the clothes she wore would be irradiated as well, and I don’t know enough about radiation to know if people can be around enough radiation that they emit it as well, you knob. . https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Solvay_Conference. And in 2 different disciplines; physics and chemistry.. [removed]. It’s good that Marie is there to represent women. She’s practically glowing with pride!. i doubt tolerance had much to do with it, more so the fact that there were less minorities and those that were in europe, were often poorer so did not have as much education.. I'm just pointing out facts. Also name 5 famous non-european physicists . [deleted]. We made it along way in terms of gender representation in science since then.. So much talent, so many great minds, so many...men.. I seem to remember hearing that Einstein was a good portion of the way to the Schrodinger eqn when Schrodinger published it, but that could be total bullshit. Some look stern, but sternness is not a measure of happiness. Many look happy to me, and most look content at least. Sometimes what people see is a reflection of how they’re feeling themselves. . i rarely post here + am not sure if it's ok to mention a certain popular tv show. at the end of the show he's presumed dead, but you don't really know if he's alive or dead, until the next season, but there isn't one, aside from bcs.

. At least you can remember whether you had tea or not!! sometimes I can't...
. I bet it was tea.. Man. If there were a jeopardy where people make jokes and you take them seriously, I bet you could crush it. . Actual hired photographer vs guy with camera in room with mediocre lighting. And much much more diverse. …did you go through my comment history just to throw in a sexist jab?. My hunch was that he was referring to his work at Los Alamos, but I never asked.  . Seeing as it's a physics class, I'd guess he's referring to von Neumann's mathematical endeavours. . If he was, you would have to add one..... It's possible to be talented and knowledgeable but not ethical. I think he deserves sympathy, he was a slave owner but he pretty clearly didn’t feel great about and seemed to respect Africans as being as human as him(see preamble to the constitution, and his law practice). 

My point, however, is that I saw a documentary, where I was told that he sucked at personal finances, and basically would’ve been in a poor house if it wasn’t for slavery, which enabled him to do all that he did. Which while it was amazing for an individual is fucked up because it heavily relied on the labors of others, but I think given what was given him, he seemed to make the best of it, in the time he was living.

TLDR; Jefferson was amazing and did a lot of good, but that’s not as remarkable when you considered all of the work he didn’t do because someone else did it for him. . ... And what do you know about clothes?. I'm pretty sure they're just contaminated also, not entirely sure . [removed]. edwin hubble, satyendra bose, j.r. oppenheimer, henrietta leavitt, richard feynman, etc. Russia would be conveniently part of Europe for you I suppose?. CV Raman, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, Satyendra Nath Bose, Abdus Salam, CN Yang. One way to look at it is to imagine the possible extra progress if all members of society had the same access to contribute to science.


That's not to take away from the achievements of these great scientists.. Many care. Even if it is, I would be shocked if none of the others in the photo were at least part of the way along each others' discoveries.. Just have tea every night so you don't need to remember.. "But at least you knew how fast the tea was going."

-Heisenberg, probably. Man. If there were a jeopardy where people make shitty jokes and then get defensive when someone doesn't get them, I bet you would crush it. . [deleted]. Really barely, though. I mean in terms of more women, yes substantially. People of color? Not seeing many in those two pics. . [deleted]. [Clothes, lab notes and furniture are all radioactive.](https://www.sciencealert.com/these-personal-effects-of-marie-curie-will-be-radioactive-for-another-1-500-years) So it stands to reason that in this picture she was radioactive. . [removed]. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar.. I mean it is part of Eastern Europe, so sure.. [deleted]. I'm currently reading a book: quantum - Einstein, bohr and the great debate of the nature of reality. That describes how all these minds came together in the few decades of the great discoveries in physics and who worked with and against each other. It's pretty interesting to read. Also many of these guys had to abandon their own believes in terms of new discoveries and to continue exploring quantum physics. . Absolutely. A bunch of intelligent people operating in close contact in the same intellectual atmosphere reading all the same science as it comes out are bound to be thinking along at least somewhat similar lines . "I drink tea every night."

"Why?"

"So I don't have to remember..."

"Oh my god. I'm so sorry. I don't mean to dredge up memories, but... Do you mind telling me about it?"

"I don't want to have to remember whether I had tea yesterday. So I have tea every day."

"I... Um... Okay.". [deleted]. Not if you knew where the tea was.. People who live in glass houses shouldn't be throwing stones. . I know! I'm surprised we have been downvoted lol. Wth.. >diversity of minds, creativity, thinking, passion?

Given that this is roughly independent of gender and race when given equal opportunities you'd expect the picture to be more representative of humanity as this becomes the case. So seeing how skewed it is to a particular demographic the group is, or conversely how representative of humanity in general the group is, is a decent proxy. No idea why that upsets you.. I think it's more about every person getting the same chances to excel in the field. Well for one I'm not really familiar with many of the scientists in either picture, so I'm not really sure about the diversity of their work. But I'd argue there *is* more diversity in the ways you stated than there used to be. But I also think including the other like 80% of races/ethnicities in the world and more women in the scientific community is just as helpful.. Lmao what a stupid sentiment. Diversity of skin tone is a good proxy for diversity of experience which is a good proxy for diversity of skills or will or passion. It's quite explicitly racist (and just stupid) to imply that these people are where they are because of advantages they received for not being white. They are where they are because they have brilliant minds and our society is finally taking its first baby steps toward allowing non-white-males with brilliant minds to use those minds to their fullest ability. Basically what I'm saying is get some historical context or fuck off with your ignorant opinion . Yeah, that is correct, she had heavily contaminated many areas around her lab with radium, so it makes sense it would have gotten on her clothes as well. Radium is very radioactive, it has a very large specific activity.. [removed]. CV Raman.

Also, love how he just ignores the comment that straight up answered his "challenge". Because its a lie. Access is not equal for everyone.. > Also many of these guys had to abandon their own believes in terms of new discoveries and to continue exploring quantum physics. 

This is the great challenge everywhere.  Just as new art or music must break free of the old, so must new science.  Our mindsets can hold us back, and it takes a kind of creative genius to break free.. /r/HeyThatsNotABadIdea. I think it's a miscommunication.. unless we have been submitting on T_D the whole time.. **Black Mirror theme intensifes*. [deleted]. Especially since she literally carried the stuff in her pockets. [removed]. [deleted]. And wisdom to see when one is wrong.. Looks like T_D found me. >Also, this pic is almost 100 years old and not representative of today's society any more.

Yeah, that was kind of the point? I mean why do you think the modern version is more diverse - a) ethnic minorities and women have got inherently cleverer compared to white men, b) diversity quotas alone, or c) widened access to the field.

Personally I think the answer is c, and celebrating the visible diversity of the picture relative to 100 years ago is a celebration of how much less science is closed off to the diversity of minds you claim to care about. You're the only one who brought up quotas.. Hum, no? While we have made enormous progress a lot of women are still told that STEM careers are "unfemenine". A lot of boys get science kits while girls get kitchen kits and a lot of people still think that women are inherently worse at logic than men. [deleted]. >Yeah of course I do care.

Then you should be happy the modern picture is more visibly diverse  rather than having a strop when someone points it out, because as I've pointed out it's almost certainly a sign of widened access to the field. What's your problem again?. [deleted]. Well luckily for you that information is freely available.

http://www.solvayinstitutes.be/html/annual_rep.html 2 decades worth of footage of stars orbiting a black hole - is this real and accurate?. nan. It’s real. These are actual observations. I like [this version](https://youtu.be/A2jcVusR54E) better. I think it makes it more clear what’s going on. This was a seriously huge observation that gave us an enormous amount of information about our galactic center and sgr a* (our central supermassive black hole). It’s pretty hard to argue that there isn’t a SMBH there after this result. Huge testament to the power of IR astronomy. . It's real. [Here's principal investigator Dr. Andrea Ghez of UCLA describing the work.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c8re1U9rCo4)

For some reason the UCLA Galactic Center group's website is down at the moment.


. [deleted]. thats so interesting. such massive fucking objects, look how much the two smaller stars affect each other when they pass each other in the bottom left part of the center!. I've never thought to ask, but if you wanted to create an estimate (and say, confidence intervals) of where an invisible gravitational body is given the motion of other bodies, how would you go about doing that?

In this case, it seems like any 1 object might have enough information to find the black hole, but what about in more complex cases like when there's a massive planet that we can't see only slightly impacting objects we can see? Is it the same math?. why does the center one whip around like that?. What's going on with the star that comes into view in the upper left?  There are a couple of others doing the same thing.. Awesome to see lensing with motion. . I can’t remember the speed but that one star at the center was traveling some absurd speed at maxV based on calcs. . I would've lost money betting that that was real… Very cool…￼. Dr. Ghez was my professor last year at UCLA! She showed this in class. Cool stuff. I want to know what’s going on in the lower right, upper right, and at the top. Can anyone explain that phenomena?. Okay, so I know very little about how black holes affect planets and stars. I do know that as long as they orbit close enough, there is an eventual pull and the black hole absorbs it entirely. In this video it seems, they just orbit and shoot out because of the overwhelming gravitational pull. Why would this be?. I see something like this and wonder what I’m really looking at.  It’s just a bright spot to me.

I wonder if someone, somewhere far away, is looking at a similar image without knowing they’re seeing the earth and the billions of people who populate it. They just see a blurry cluster of light without knowing it’s our home.  . So in 20 years, wonder what the distances traversed are?. What would happen if our solar system was one of those stars?. It's been another 9 years since, I wonder if there is an updated paper and video. . What the HELL is coming into the frame in the upper left hand corner of the screen??? 

Does someone know THIS??. Wow . How is that one star moving left?  Is it just on a different orbital plane?. This is our galactic center of our galaxy. The object moving those in the center of the black space is Sagittarius A * star, or the super massive black hole that resides in our galaxies center. To give some perspective on the power and mass of Sag A.. those stars that we see wizzing around it are several times the mass of our sun. Some are said to be more than 20+ solar masses. The stars imaged orbit at some 2 million kilometers-per hour.. I could see the orbits better if i blurred my eye. It sort of focused it better. Then I could see the middle star whiplash around the middle.

It was very interesting to see the development of the technology taking the images with time too.. \[black\] holy shit.   


 An awesome feat of our technological ingenuity, directed at our terrifying absolute end.  . How come this Blackhole isn't pulling stars right into it? Is it not big enough? . I wonder if whoever made this video showed it to their wife half way through the process? She was probably like 'huh' and hopefully he said 'it's not done yet' . I would've lost money on the bet that I could type a coherent sentence…. That version is simulated based on orbital fits to real observations. OP's looks like real data, you can even see when they started using AO and the brighter stars show speckle patterns. I think OP's is actually interpolated to show smooth motion. I know we have a lot of data on this, but I don't think it's enough to make a video that smooth. . IIRC this video *is* proof. The minimum periapsis of those orbits and the keplerian mass of the object they orbit let us know the density of that area of space. Even that massive area with all its uncertainty has a minimum density higher than a black hole.. So, aside from sgr a* in the center of the image, are we seeing lensing going on around the individual foreground stars on the far-left side and lower-left corner of the image?  Or is all that flickering just data artifacts or something?  If that’s lensing that’s freaking amazing.  The whole thing is amazing — to be able to peer through that much dust & gas, for that many years, to see stars traveling that ridiculously fast, and basically prove in a very satisfyingly tangible way that black holes really do exist... just wow.. UCLA galactic group! Professor Andrea Ghez who is PI for the galactic group was my lower division Astrophysics course professor at UCLA! Her and her group found the black hole in the middle of Milky Way . How far are those stars going??. Wasn't a collision due soon?. [deleted]. This particular video is actually from observations done at the European Southern Observatory, led by the MPE galactic center group and Genzel. The competitors to the UCLA group doing similar work with Keck.

http://www.mpe.mpg.de/ir/GC

The MPE group has recently lead the development of a new instrument for the VLT called GRAVITY. GRAVITY is capable of making measurements more than 10 times sharper than previously possible by combining up to 4 telescopes at once.  . Not sure if our galactic center black hole is active - as in, has material spinning very close to it and giving out light - doesn't seem so from these images, so I guess you would only see the bright stars in the sky appear in different locations every so often.
Also, not sure if the orbit is close enough to have relativistic effects.. For a planetary system, while planets appear to orbit the star really every object is orbiting the centre of mass of the system which won't be at the centre of the star. The centre of mass stays stationary while there are no outside forces on the system. So the star at the centre is never truly stationary relative the system. It moves a little bit as the planets move around as well. I believe astronomers measure the relative change in red and blue shifting of the star as it wobbles around and back and forth relative to us. Honestly thinking about it is kind of mind blowing.. It gains speed as it is pulled towards the black hole, is quickly redirected by its strong gravity as it gets near, then loses speed as it moves away against the pull. It also maintains the same angular momentum the whole time, so it's an example of the "figure skater effect" where the rotation speeds up as the mass gets closer to the center. . these stars are orbiting a black hole at the center of the milky way.  on any orbit the fastest point of the orbiting object is where the two bodies are closest together.  the star that gets whipped around is most likely on a very oblong orbit, like a long thin oval.  As the star gets close to the black hole it gets faster and gets sling shotted (slung shot?) along its orbit.  i think i remember hearing they were moving at relatively large fraction of the speed of light. Classicaly, at least, Kepler’s (second?) law. As a heuristic, orbits sweep out equal area in equal time. As you get closer, you have to speed up to conserve angular momentum. 

More realistically, though, there are SEVERAL nonclassical corrections to this case, (most of which I am not intimately familiar with) but those don’t speak much to your question. Image artifacts. These are images from a ground based infrared telescope that corrects for the atmosphere with lasers. . Party stars. That's not actually lensing. I'm fairly certain this video has been deconvolved (sharpened), which can create false bridges between blended sources. Lensing has not yet been detected in the galactic center but it is hoped that it may be in the near future with recent advances in instrumentation. 

https://arxiv.org/abs/1204.2103. Where was the lensing in the video?. Boggles my mind to think someone could theorize something like Gravitational Lensing only for it to be observed years later. No ordinary someone though that Einstein! The power of Mathematics!. I can imagine. Look at the star closest to the center. It's almost completing the orbit in 20 years. That must be a mind boggling speed . It is real, you wouldn't have lost.. To be pulled in they have to be on a trajectory that makes them pass the event horizon. If their trajectory does not take them inside the event horizon then they will react to the black hole just as they would any other massive object, it will deflect the path of the object and it will either capture it in an orbit or fling it off into space. Its only once you are inside the event horizon that escape velocity becomes infinite. . It would be because black holes aren't really the 'giant vacuums' we imagine that suck everything into it. Take the sun, which has a much greater gravitational field compared to, say, the earth. Why don't we all fall into the sun? Well it's because we're going fast enough around it to orbit. The principles are the same, and you could orbit a black hole if you're going fast enough. 

So why does it shoot out like that? That has to do with conservation of energy in orbital mechanics. To put it simply, [it's like falling in a loop.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_orbit#/media/File:Elliptic_orbit.gif) As it 'falls' closer to the object being orbited it speeds up and as it gets to the outer rim of the orbit it slows down. 

Like when you go swinging in a playground swing. As you 'fall' you speed up until you being climbing again and start slowing down until you reach the height of the swing. At a fundamental level it's the same motion.. > I do know that as long as they orbit close enough, there is an eventual pull and the black hole absorbs it entirely

no - not unless the blackhole is gaining mass which is increasing its gravity.

As far as gravity is concerned, it's just "mass".  If something is in a stable orbit around a black hole, as long as it never crosses the event horizon and external to any other random effects, it'll orbit it indefinitely.. Escape velocity. At 2 million kilometers an hour * 24 hours in a day times 365 days in a year times 20 years equals about 50. All stars in this gif. It's a star (probably a nearer one or a huge one) causing optical diffraction effects due to its brightness.
. A black hole is unlikely to be "our" absolute end since we'll most likely all be dead within a few centuries, after making the planet uninhabitable with our short-sightedness and willful ignorance. 

But if we somehow survive that, and even less likely survive for a few more billion years in some form, then the Sun's eventual transformatvon into a red giant will fry "us". It'll be a long, long time after that before whatever's left of the dead husk of our Sun is in any danger of falling into our galaxy's central black hole.. They're not close enough, the same reason that the current planets in our solar system aren't falling into the sun.. Agree with you, except the last part. I don’t how how often they captured an image but hell man, 20 years worth of images in 4 seconds, it deserves to be smooth.. Yeah exactly, you don’t even need to bust out relativity to get there. So here's a dumb question. Couldn't we have detected black holes simply by how they occlude objects that orbit behind them? We'd see gravitational (lensing?) around it similar to the eclipse measurements that were done to test relativity wouldn't we? . Can we estimate an angular momentum by those orbits? If they precess?. I would guess that the speckles are residuals from the adaptive optics (AO) system used -- this is the system they use to "sharpen" the images starting about halfway through. AO can remove a lot of the blurring of the atmosphere but some of these speckles remain. There are probably dim speckles around the other dimmer stars too.. I can’t say for sure, but I’d be really surprised if that flickering on the sides was lensing considering how far from the center they are. I could definitely be wrong though, but if I had to get I’d say you’re probably right about it being data artifacts. Regardless, this is one of the most amazing observations we’ve ever done in my opinion, it’s absolutely incredible. They're not overlapping. Any conflicting orbits would have been violently resolved a long time ago.. Stars are small, space is big, and three spatial dimensions offers a significant amount of freedom.. Also have to consider we’re looking at a two dimensional image/video, in a 3 dimensional area.  If this were seen in real space, and the reality that even the closest orbits are 10s-100s of Lightyears away, but mostly much further, the chances are small but happen. I think they aren’t really on a single plane. If you look at some of the drawn out orbits several of them look pretty inclined relative to others. We're seeing a 2d projection of 3D motion. Our time frames based on our experience are wrong for building intuition for astronomical phenomenon.

The universe dowa not have stability. The orbits of everything around the super massive black hole will change and more collisions will happen. They are rare, you and your children and there children will never witness it. But it will happen probably 10s of thousands of times if not more. 



. The space were looking at is on a massive scale. Even ATC operators at airports see overlapping tracks sometimes and that's just the sky.. With its speed alone it might. Time dilatation is severely affected by the strength of the gravitational field too, and you can bet there’s a big one there. . There is none, lensing from this BH is far too subtle to be observable and the stars would have to get much closer. The warping of the blobs is entirely due to imaging artifacts. . Gravitational lensing was first observed 4 years after Einstein made his prediction, I think. Less if you count the fact that he got it wrong the first time.. He says 'very cool' at the end which makes me think he didn't think the gif was real to begin with, and thus he'd lose money on the betting against that :p. Technically, about 3 Schwartzchild radii will cause it to essentially drop in, but that's still very close to the object itself. . You are referring to the “plunge radius”. Inside that radius, any object with rest mass is condemned to plunge into the black hole, but this “plunge radius” is only the same as the event horizon in the case of a particle corotating with a maximally spinning kerr black hole. Otherwise, the plunge radius is outside of the event horizon. Thank you. That makes way more sense than some BS theory I made up in my head haha. Thanks! It makes a lot more sense now.. So they wont eventually all be sucked in? i also know nothing. So that just gravitational lensing that's happening then with the light?  The things going around it are just artifacts from something further away?  

Or are they actually rotating around that body? . [removed]. I see. But eventually the eclipse gets so close, that the star is "sucked" into it? And can a black hole disappear or like collapse or I mean get weaker and then kind of catapult a star.. Check out Figure 1 of this paper: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0004-637X/707/2/L114. That's about how much data they have for one of the closest stars to the BH. It's not regularly spaced and there are definitely gaps. If you look at that S2 star that is whipping around super fast, it definitely looks like they interpolated when no data was available. It doesn't jump around; it sort of morphs into a new location at some points. . Yeah no kidding, one image ever two ~~years~~ months would give you 30fps

Edit: Watch your units, kids. We do discover some black holes that way. . Yup. Those are called Einstien rings. Yes, and we definitely do that. The 20 year thing gives us more accurate measurements of size and mass, helping us prove it's really a black hole (though we were fairly convinced already).. They are definitely precessing. Every gravitationally bound orbit precesses. Gravity causes a distortion in space-time that effectively “creates” more distance for a body to orbit through when the body is closer to a gravitational well of one kind or another. 

This paper talks about an EXTREME case of such an orbit. 

https://arxiv.org/abs/gr-qc/0203086

Source: I am a general-relativity researcher. Agreed.  Stuff like this is in the category of “major lifetime achievements by the human species”... How many civilizations in our galaxy have grown up, prospered, died out, and yet never saw into the center of the galaxy like this.  We humans are pretty fucking clever when we’re not busy killing each other.. I just got to say, “violently resolved” is a great phrase.. [deleted]. I don't think that the volume of space shown in the image is big enough to have any that are 100s of light years away from anything else in it, or actually even 10s of light years away.

We can put an upper limit on the volume of space by noting the apparent path of each star over the 20 years if motion, finding the two points on that path with the greatest angular separation, and noting that the maximum possible separation in space that can be is 20 light years. From that, it looks to me like the volume of space in that image is 100 light years diagonally tops.

Note that was based on assuming the star I used for getting scale was moving at the speed of light. Wikipedia tells me that the fastest known ballistic orbit is the star S2, one of the stars orbiting that black hole, which at closest approach is moving at about 1/60th the speed of light. Using that, we can lower the upper limit by a factor of 60, giving the region of space shown in the image a light year or two across tops.

I found some earlier movies of this region, when they only had maybe 10 years of data, but they thought to include a caption with a scale, and it looks like it is about 30 or so light days across.. Okay, how does time dilation affect the orbit? If it orbits in one year to us, how does that look from an observer on a planet around the Star? If it takes more than a year, how is that observation reconciled? It’s time dilation from general relativity, right? So since we’re not talking relativistic speeds, there wouldn’t be length contraction.. There is a movie about this.  Einstein and Eddington with Andy Serkis (Gollum) as Einstein and David Tennant(Doctor Who) as Eddington.  Very cool movie and recommended.  Even better if you get the chance to see a total solar eclipse in totality.  It’s a mind blowing experience and goes by quickly.  It is hard to imagine staying focused enough to make scientific observations while that’s going on!


https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0995036/. Well I guess that's what I meant by "on a trajectory" that takes you inside the event horizon. If a body is not otherwise accelerated and it goes inside the plunge radius then yes it will pass the event horizon. I suppose you are more right given the topic at hand (unless these stars are accelerated by something I don't know about). But I was just trying to clear up the "cosmic vacuum cleaner" hypothesis. If you get close but not too close, it will just seem like you are orbiting any old massive body.. Every orbit decays over time. A planet or star doesn’t care what generates the gravity well. Big rock, another star, a black hole. As long as you are outside of the event horizon the orbit will behave normally with increasingly funny gravitational effects. . Depends on the orbit and stuff. I dont know much either, but they can keep orbiting for millions of years and then drift into the black hole or they can be launched out of the orbit. I'm not sure if one can orbit forever, seems unlikely.. Everything and I mean everything - the Earth, every star in the universe will in eons be sucked into black holes including the black holes them selves! Until there is nothing left except one incredibly massive black hole. Kind of a depressing thought isn't it? But humbling too, that everything including the most distant stars will die. No one or nothing is special in that regard. Everything comes to an end. I personally like that we all share the same beginnings and ultimately the same end despite the vastness of the Universe.. Neither. It's just noise/artifacting in the image like if you pointed a camera straight at a lamp.. Our sun is too small to become a black hole. I don't think you people know how downvoting works.. Outside the event horizon black holes are not special. If you replaced our sun with a black hole of the same mass, nothing in particular would happen to us as far as gravity is concerned. We'd just keep orbiting. Black holes are not magic suction devices that sucks things in from a distance, they follow the same laws of physics as any other objects with mass. For something to get sucked in it has to collide with the black hole.

Of course something might have a decaying orbit around a black hole, just like it might around any other object, causing a collision to occur eventually. But it might also have a stable orbit.

And no, a star can't be ejected from a black hole if it has passed the event horizon..  Could there be a gravitational lensing effect going on there? The first thing I thought when I saw that one star 'smear' was that it was moving behind the singularity and bending the hell out of the light.. Not sure I follow your math. . Do you want to go in the event horizon? . >This is a bit like saying they don't collide because they d̶o̶n̶'̶t̶ didn't collide. 

FTFY



. Not really? They're in stable orbits now. They've been orbiting for billions of years. Any issues with their paths would have resulted in them colliding a long time ago. I'm sure there were collisions, but the ones left orbiting now aren't going to suddenly swerve into each other. It's the same as Neptune and Pluto - if their orbits actually conflicted, Pluto likely would already be long gone.. Why ask a question and then argue the answer?. S2 also does get significantly close to Sgr A* on its closest approach. I wouldn't know offhand the scale in the image, but I'd agree with your general estimation just based on knowing how close the BH and S2 come to each other.. So this is me, not an expert, just pondering this but as an observer the orbit would be unaffected because while time is experienced differently there with respect to here, the light informing us of these orbits is arriving here at a constant rate. So it's all happening(ed) in "real time", it just all happened a long time ago with respect to us. Exactly how long ago would be modulated by the time dilation.. You are correct in your last statement! . I thought everything points to the heat death of the universe, not a collapse into a black hole since the expansion of the universe is accelerating? 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heat_death_of_the_universe. > Until there is nothing left except one incredibly massive black hole. 

That is not what physics predicts. There won't ever be a single black hole because the universe is expanding too fast for gravity to overcome it.. > Everything and I mean everything - the Earth, every star in the universe will in eons be sucked into black holes including the black holes them selves

nope.

> Until there is nothing left except one incredibly massive black hole.

good god, no, so very no.. So just noise then?. Phew, thank Jesus Christ our Lord and saviour. Firey ball of death it is!. Posting incorrect basic information in r/physics is reasonable cause for a downvote. You now know that our Sun is too small to form a black hole, so you've learned something, which is what we're here for. It's more difficult to learn if people are spreading misinformation.. Thank you. every 2 month. No, I don’t want to go anywhere near one. Have you ever heard of a black hole firewall? Nasty stuff. Hold on now. I'm pretty sure they don't collide cause space is big so even if they appear close on this footage, they are quite far apart.

There is no way that these orbits are stable tho. You even see in this short duration that one star can pull another into a different orbit. Its like the n-body situation, except there is one very large central mass.. Some of those are massive stars, in which case they won’t have been orbiting for that long, but you’re probably right that most orbits have been cleared. I don’t think there’s a well-defined plane for them, which is why we see all the crossing. Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't it just incredibly unlikely to see a collision? It would seem to me by the very nature of a black hole being there that over time the orbits would ever so slightly distort and when you have countless objects around it, eventually some are going to smack into each other.. But let's say one orbit of this star appears to us on Earth taking one year. With time dilation, that means somebody in orbit around that star will experience an orbit to be much longer, let's say 5 years. We on earth have to agree with the people near the black hole, so something else has to cave, since we can't agree on the duration of an orbit. In special relativity, this is re-conciliated by length contraction. I don't know as much about general relativity, but from my understanding, there isn't any kind of general relativistic length contraction. So how does a star trace out the same distance (the "circumference" of the orbit) in two very different amounts of time?

**Edit** Why is this post at 0 points? Are questions discouraged on this sub?. Apologies for my misinformation. That was was the last theor I read about a possible outcome for the universe some time ago. It made some sense to me as I figured a fair majority of stars would eventually collapse to a black hole. Then the remaining stars would supernova and be sucked into them. Then all that's left is the black holes and they would be drawn to each other finally merging. Obviously i'm wrong. What's the correct answer?. Nearly all stars have a fiery ball of death phase, which will fry any planets close enough to it. If the star is massive enough to collapse to a black hole (our sun is not), that will happen next.

However, after that it will still take a *long* time before the orbits of any remaining planets, that weren't consumed in the initial explosion, can degrade enough to fall into the remaining black hole. 

In fact, the mass of the black hole will be significantly less than that of the original star, because the initial explosion expels a lot of mass. So to start with, the planets' orbits will actually increase in diameter, and then begin an unimaginably long, slow process of degrading. 

Having a black hole at the center of a system doesn't change the orbital mechanics, it's still just a mass that follows Newton's laws approximately (or Einstein's laws more specifically.) 

Black holes don't have more attractive power than stars of equivalent mass. What makes a stellar-mass black hole different is that it's possible to get much closer to their center of mass, and thus experience a much stronger gravitational pull. But that doesn't affect planets, which are always outside the original star's radius anyway.
. I appreciate that and it's good to broaden that understanding for myself. 

But that's not what the downvote system is for. . Yes that. Yeah I have, mostly my question was to see if you you are a theorist or experimentalist. . Where do you see a star disturbing another's orbit? The vast majority of these orbits are stable. And the person you replied to is right, it's likely that a lot of these stars have established resonances that all but guarantees they'll never collide with each other. . Okay, still totally not an expert here, but in rethinking it I think I had it wrong, and you have it backwards. An orbit would appear to take longer observed from here then it would be experienced on an orbiting star. The gravity around the hole is expanding the length of space time around it so portion of the orbit closer to the black hole would have farther space time to cross and therefore take longer to reach us. To the observer the star would appear to be slowing down as it nears the hole but actually it's the rate of information being received that's informing us of it's position that is slowing down. I think.

At the same time the increasing gravity would be accelerating the star tremendously so that would compensate the affect to a degree (don't know to what degree cause I don't have a degree >.>) from the post it would appear the gravitational acceleration is dominant.. Blackholes will eventually evapourate into nothing via hawking radiation.

The universe is expanding faster than gravity can pull it together - unless they're already close, or on a future collision course, black holes won't merge with one another.

They will peter out, with a whimper.  

But they'll live to see the end of everything, so they have that going for them.

This video may help - it's 15 mins long and explains it mostly in laymans terms.  hope it helps!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qg4vb-KH5F4

. I am a theorist! Computational work really, but lots of non-physicists see that as theoretical work. I work on the EMRI problem and some on transformation theory. Some of the orbits of the weaker sources literally reverse direction with encounters. Think about how the larger elliptical orbits sometimes come in with large stars on one sode of the black hole, and other times those stars are on the same side of the black hole. No way this isn’t a chaotic system.. Hawking radiation, of course. Thanks for clearing that up and the link! . [deleted]. Its rotating clockwise, a star comes by, and then it rotates counter clockwise. ?. I don't see a single star that changes from orbiting clockwise to counterclockwise. . [deleted]. There is a lot of noise in this image, weak signal sources that appear to fade in and out, and many of the orbits appear to be extremely elliptical, so anything that looks like it "reverses" is either a weak signal flickering in or out, or the object has reached the edge of its elliptical orbit from our perspective and so appears to begin moving the opposite direction. One signal source moving near another signal source in this 2D image is an artifact of projecting 3D movement on a 2D screen and doesn't mean they have gravitationally acted upon one another in such an extreme way.. In the mid left of the image you see a small star curving counter clockwise around the black hole, then it comes close (maybe not could be very different planes, but either way) to a star going clockwise. After they cross they both appear to be going clockwise.. That's only for planets because they are close enough that earth's orbit makes it appear that way. These are so far out that regardless of the Earth's motion it would appear pretty much the same.. Sure that may be true of this video but I still contend that the galactic core is not a stable system. That’s my major argument.. [deleted]. Does it sound like I'm saying that they aren't orbiting the black hole? I'm saying that their orbits aren't stable because there is a whole lot of stars tugging on each other with short orbital periods around the black hole. And I'm saying your idea that the reversal of direction is caused by our perspective doesn't make any sense.. [deleted]. Ok I see that you’ve deeply misunderstood me and now think I have no idea what gravity is. A brachistochrone rig I built to represent the fastest roll between two points. In a perfect set up, the steep slope rail (y=1/x) should come in second, but friction and wobbling really slow it down.. nan. Another option is to use double walls with small gap between them and run marbles down. Fine grit sanding and some hard gloss varnish will also help if the spindles are grabbing the sides. Wetrub varnish after it's dried for a few days.

Ply wood is also very directional grained might be better to use another material or a high grade ply wood.

Alternative is to 3D print a cover or find a suitable trim to attach to the slope tops.. For more info, the VSauce video on this is fascinating. Grease the bajeesus out of the slides and do it again. See if you can assign values to wobbliness and friction of your set up.

Awesome content dude! Any future plans for content? Id love to offer my support. I have plenty of time to think but not a ton to get in the shop with a 5yr old i love dearly at home.

Cheers!. Nice work! Yeah the 1/x curve is so close to flat towards the end, and that must make the friction become a huge factor.. Satisfying. Can't stop watching. Brilliant job. Nice! What would happen if you moved the curved part of the middle slope closer to the bottom right or closer to the top left?. 3rd time watching i realized it's in slow motion. [deleted]. Well done. Try rubbing some WD40 on that steep slope route :). That doesn't look like 1/x. Very cool. This is mesmerizing.. Slow your roll, there, professor.. My Calc teacher showed me this at GRCC and for some reason I was under the impression that his model was the only one of its kind. I was wrong I guess. Cool stuff.. I don’t understand it, but it looks cool. Very neat, never encountered this before. Great opportunity to teach traction!. As a non-physicist I guessed the fastest roll would be down the top slope, since it was the shortest distance.

But it was clearly obvious how wrong I was.

Very interesting concept. Well done!. I think I read the the brachistochrone also has this property: the travel time, from the release point to the bottom, is independent of the release point.

You could test this, by holding two rollers at different points on the b'chrone, and then releasing them at the same time.  Do they then collide at the bottom?. Great stuff...so if you’re really interested in mathematics check-out some fun and compelling Rube Goldberg YouTube videos!. Why the last one speed up on the ending ?. I would like to know how much rotation plays into this. Of the marble or object that rolls down rotates and not only slides you will loose some extra potential energy that could have become kinetic energy to rotation. I would suspect that the different curves lead to different amount of rotational energy in the marble and therefore a slightly steeper curve than your ideal one might outperform it??? But I don't know. Hahaha I just watched vsauce’s video about brachistochrones. My god that’s cool. The fastest curve actually goes down below the x-axis (below the table) and comes back up. It looks similar to the collaboration between Adam Savage and Michael from Vsauce. Most of the intertia for this roller will be rotational. I suspect that the rollers on the steep parts not gripping (the frictional force is proportional to the normal force, which is proportional to the cosine of the slope angle, which is very close to zero).

Also, shouldn't the final part of the brachistochrone curve be uphill? [edit] I retract this last.. Have you taken angular momentum of the disks into consideration?. r/apexlegends. I am not a physicist, just a normal bloke, who happened to 'catch' this video. Am I right in saying that the shortest distance in space from point 'a' to pont 'b' is a curve? If so does this experiment help to explain this?. I think waxing the rails might help with your friction problem. By any chance Is the fast slope e?. Adam Savage built this, not you.. [deleted]. You mean not everything is predictable through science and math? 

Who could have guessed? 

Crazy town am I right?. ^ This guy/gal brachistochrones. I'm not sure we can trust u/incorrect_Method. Use metal.. Username checks out. Do u have the link?. Thanks. That was really cool. I wish my dad were alive to share that with him.  Shit, didn’t mean to get deep like that. But anyway, I’ll share it with my kids...   the circle of life.. Assign values to friction?

I... I never learned that in school, they told us friction didn’t exist. Thanks! This was just a project I did in my free time using my school’s workshop. I really enjoyed doing it, so I'll probably try making something else some time!. Even without friction, this result would be roughly the same.. assuming the curve is already a cycloid, any change to the slope would increase the descent time, it is proven that the cycloid is the fastest possible curve, ignoring friction and air resistance as per usual with physics (details involve some heavy calculus but search up Euler-Lagrange Equations if you're curious). VSauce has a video in which he and a guy from the Mythbusters create one of these and it’s done in the correct location if i remember correctly— not the minimum of the cycloid.. This is effectively the wrong use of it entirely, right? Like, a correct brachistochrone ending there would be faster.. Wikipedia shows it this way:  [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone\_curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone_curve) .. The modern engineering toolkit: WD-40, duct tape. Zoomed out?. yes impressive construction but didn't look like 1/x. Yeah, I can't see how it is 1/x. It looks like a right-angle.. The first ~8 seconds of the video are played in slow motion; the last second is in real-time. Watch the presenter's hands to see where it switches.. It does? Sounds like a good covid project!. I was first introduced to the curve by him, but this is my own project. You can watch his video [here](https://youtu.be/skvnj67YGmw).. No, watch that video [here](https://youtu.be/skvnj67YGmw). This is my own project.. You should probably delete this before anymore downvotes. I mean it's a high school project using high school kinematics and high school construction skills. Not sure what point you're trying to make here.. r/brandnewsentences. Tanquam ex ungue leonem. [removed]. AC/DC or DIO?. *it's underground*. https://youtu.be/skvnj67YGmw. Well without friction, it wouldn’t be roughly at all!. Without friction, 1/x would beat the constant slope one.. Well, it would never have gotten slower. Without friction, the only way for it to get slower is if the path slopes back upward somewhere.. Ah, so it's already perfect? Damn

I suppose its obvious that, if the box was tilted slightly upwards then the descent times for all 3 slopes would be shorter. [deleted]. Duct taping it is unlikely to help increase the speed.. It depends on the scale used. Compare 

[1/x with x, y between 0 and 5](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=plot+1%2Fx+with+x+from+0+to+5+and+y+from+0+to+5)

to

[1/x with x, y between 0 and 50](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=plot+1%2Fx+with+x+from+0+to+50+and+y+from+0+to+50) (i.e. zoomed out 10 times)

The more you zoom out, the more it looks like a "right-angle".. I'm sorry OP, it resembled it so much I thought it was Theirs, I apologise bro. Use the construction suggested by incorrect_Method and glue a thin metal strip to the edge of each wall so that the marble rolls on the inner edges of the strips.  One source of usable strips might be cheap tape measures.. *why is my metal so sad and lumpy?*. You da best!. Thanks! That was fascinating.. They did the tautochrone race too! Love it!. r/angryupvote son of a bitch that's funny. Dumb, yet made me laugh. Here. Take it. +1.. That’s non-trivial to prove and you can’t say that offhand without doing the calculus of variations. That may be true but there’s no guarantee

I’m not sure why I’m being downvoted. [Calculus of variations](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calculus_of_variations)  is the technique used to solve for a brachistocrone.

You can even see [that whether y=-x or y =1/x depends](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone_curve) on the overall distance on the top of the Wikipedia page. yeah, but the top of the 1/x and cycloid curves are vertical so there would be some freefall involved. although it definitely requires more math to rigorously prove a decrease in descent time (and to disprove special cases where time may actually go up), intuitively you're pretty much right. If you’re interested, the proof of the optimality of the cycloid is actually not all that difficult given you know a little calculus already. The theoretical machinery is a bit complex, but this problem is a brilliant fairly easy to understand application of functional analysis. It’s actually one of the things that convinced me to study math instead of physics!. What's cool is that no matter the starting point, as long as all three curves are cycloids and end at the same height, the time taken by all three objects will be the same. That's why a brachistochrone is also called a tautochrone (tauto= same, chron= time). He means as it is shown in the wikipedia article:  [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone\_curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brachistochrone_curve) .

Though I'm not sure if the set up in the video is equivalently fast.. That's okay. I did first get introduced to it from that video anyway!. r/unexpectedbillwurtz. Holy shit shut up. Alright. Thank you for answering my questions :). As a physicist, I’m sad that the mathematical solution to a famous physics problem convinced you to study maths!

I hope it’s applied maths at least! ;). Don't you need to know the Euler lagrange equations?. **Brachistochrone curve**

In mathematics and physics, a brachistochrone curve (from Ancient Greek  βράχιστος χρόνος (brákhistos khrónos), meaning 'shortest time'), or curve of fastest descent, is the one lying on the plane between a point A and a lower point B, where B is not directly below A, on which a bead slides frictionlessly under the influence of a uniform gravitational field to a given end point in the shortest time. The problem was posed by Johann Bernoulli in 1696.

The brachistochrone curve is the same shape as the tautochrone curve; both are cycloids. However, the portion of the cycloid used for each of the two varies.

***

^([ )[^(PM)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space)^( | )[^(Exclude me)](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme)^( | )[^(Exclude from subreddit)](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned)^( | )[^(FAQ / Information)](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index)^( | )[^(Source)](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)^( ] Downvote to remove | v0.28). no problem 👍. Haha unfortunately I’ve been turned to the dark side of logic and set theory. But my original interest was functional analysis and I’ll always have a soft spot for PDEs and physics.. Well yes, but actually no. You certainly need to solve one, but you don’t need a ton of high level machinery to really understand the problem. It can be worked through with mostly a strong freshman level understanding of calculus. Thornton and Marion’s book *Classical Dynamics* has a great walkthrough of the brachistochrone problem. Though I’ll admit the one subtlety that even they don’t mention is a bit of a measure theory that says if a function has Lebesgue integral 0 then it is 0 almost everywhere. (I’ve stated this imprecisely for brevity. It actually has to do with products.)This is actually exactly how you derive the Euler-Lagrange equation from the physics.. I didn't realize measure theory came up at all in calculus of variations. That's probably the one field of math that comes up most that I wish I had studied but never did. I did a undergrad in math as well but a PhD in an engineering field so haven't gone back to doing anything with abstract math in a while, even though I would like too.

I definitely miss the subtleties of math classes and things related to calculus of variations seem to come up a lot when I try to learn something new in physics and I seem to be missing that part of it.

Granted things like differential geometry or whatever come up a lot, but I find it easier to just take definitions as they come, and I'm not really proving anything so it seems fine. And taking a formal class in topology helps with just accepting the abstractness. I feel like calculus of variations should feel natural tho, but I just have a hard time following it (all the deltas involved with derivatives and all when doing functional derivatives, not to mention path integrals, which just seem like magic to me).. Boy do measure theory and functional analysis come up quite a bit more often than I’m comfortable with. In physics though the formalism really isn’t all that important. Obviously it’s necessary, but people seem to be much more concerned with whether things like that have any use as a tool for describing physics. Logical coherence is moreso just assumed unless you derive nonsense. Path integrals though. Yeah basically evil magic. A demonstration of Density. nan. These bartenders are getting out of hand with the experimental cocktails. . Colombian flag.. This is not so much a demonstration of density, but on two-phase liquids. It is obvious why the matter sorts itself by density (minimized potential energy), but not so much why they won't mix.. Much better title than the explaination of density in some other sub.. Much satisfaction . If I wanted to recreate this, what exactly was used here?  . If you drink this do you get +1 to all stats.. Is the bottom honey?
. Name of the liquids ? :). Odds on, drink it . A demonstration of density. I mean... your destiny.. Water and oil, but what’s the third liquid?. You are my density...I mean, my destiny. . Damn....
. Mainly demonstrating polarity.. Can you guys tell me what those liquids are? Looks interesting.. What about this one? A pretty neat demonstration. [Can you float a liquid on a gas?](https://youtu.be/AsP4yMY-a6U). Glad I stuck through to the end. . Ok finally something that’s badass. . You want to see dense? Look at the current administration. That there is proper dense. . Can we shake that whole glass and watch everything rearrange? . D I F F E R E N T  L E V E L S. What are the liquids? My guesses:

* Dense oil on the bottom
* Water in the middle
* Light oil on the top (vegetable oil?). “Claps” nice “claps”. To a flat earther, you just proved how gravity works. Now drink it. Accidental Californication. But will it blend?. This was literally my science project in the 4th grade. I didn't have any idea what I was supposed to be sciencing. . I want to see this with 3 fluids of the same color. nice one. Pour a layer of Mercury in there for some real interesting results. . Codys lab already did this better by FLOATING AN IRON ANVIL ON MERCURY . Chug! Chug! Chug!. That's amazing. What is the last thing on the top. Hey this was my 5th grade science project!      😎🤘🏽. Drink it. [deleted]. vg. b. b tyvgj v .   by m n bcbh

yb nnug.
k
m.h
j
hgh

.yg
  m .

yohomy. [deleted]. Surprised people think this is impressive. Did this as a standard science experiment in school growing up. Probably elementary school?. i made a gin/campari drink last night with egg white and muddled nectarine that had the campari separated on the bottom and spritzed over the top. I think you mean mixologist. I got this drink in ma cup . The tide pod cocktail. Came here to day the exact same thing. Was not disappointed.. good point.. What's not obvious to me is actually the opposite, why would two liquids (like water and alcohol in vodka for example) stay mixed even when it's not minimizing gravitational potential energy? Is there something else being minimized when they're mixed?. The start yes but that's more to get clear defined density boundaries, the objects placed in afterwards are the density demonstration. Seeing them line up on that boundary is pretty satisfying too.. it's actually a sloth doing the demonstration. The video was sped up. I saw that too... All I could think was this is not an explanation, it's a demonstration!. you honor me.. came here to say this. It looks to me like the bottom is syrup (or possibly honey as pointed out below) of some sort, the middle is water, and the top is vegetable oil.. I'm gonna go with yes. I was thinking maple syrup or something but I think honey would work better.. Now that's pretty damn neat.. Styrofoam sponge . No you are not.. [deleted]. "I've seen this before.  Why hasn't everyone else seen this before, too?". Weird when they get a totally different tasting cocktail part way through. Does that campari-less portion still taste balanced?. Ew campari is nasty. Well they’re miscible, essentially it’s a solution due to the hydrogen bonding from the hydroxyl group to the oxygen in the water, if i understand correctly.

You can float alcohol on water pretty easily i think. Thank you! . dont remember posting this but ok...... You missed my point. My point is that it's standard. People always downvote this kind of thing and it doesn't make sense. *shakes head*. I drink my whiskey fast and my cocktails slow, so it had plenty of time to mix while drinking. If anything the last sip was a bit campari for my GF who drank hers a bit faster than me. . Ah yes. A ~~$40~~ $30 appertif that people all over the world buy just because it tastes nasty. okay. you just have to know how to mix it, or you need a more refined palette since it is used in hundreds of cocktails. So then the hydrogen bonding potential is being minimized and the difference between the mixed and unmixed hydrogen bonding potentials is more negative than the difference between the mixed and unmixed gravitational potentials for the system is positive.. Oh please, show me that...
Alcohol is highly miscible with water so unless water is frozen it's gonna mix fast.. You probably butt-posted it. Better delete it before people downvote you unneccesarily.. I've seen it before, too, but I don't know that it's a science standard for teachers to do this demonstration (even if the theory of immiscible liquids are in science books).  Either way, it's a neat thing to look at even if you have seen it before.. Negroni= nasty.
Boulevardier= nasty.
And I like gin and whiskey drinks. Campari just doesn't tickle my pickle. It's pretty nasty imo.
Edit: tell ya what, it's been a while since I've poured a campari cocktail. I'll go out and buy some Cointreau tomorrow and try a Jasmine. I'll report back and let you know if it's still nasty af. Oh and by the way, every single fifth size of campari I've ever seen has cost less than $25. Only if the interface of the two fluids is small enough relative to the volume maybe. I’m not sure, pretty early into my undergrad

I’m guessing some gradient forms near the interface. Try putting some food coloring in water and pour the alcohol on the side of the container while tilting it so that it doesn’t mix too much, and see if they stay separate. I could be wrong so if you report back that’d be cool. I'd also like to point out that by Bayesian Inference, given 7 billion possible points and my sample being only the size of 1, it's highly likely that seeing this is normal. Put another way, anything I see has a high chance of being experienced by many other people if I am not an abnormal human.. dont drink it just cause I said so, and yeah i was exaggerating the price a bit. The drink I made was good though. I used a good mild flavored gin (i like prairie)  (1.5oz), cointreau (1.0), muddled_nectarine, add ice and shake with egg white.  rim the glass with anise/ vanilla drops, add bitters to taste (~3dash grapefruit, lavender), pour cocktail, then pour to glass, and sink campari (0.25 or more). stir to mix together if you want a uniform taste. . Here you go fam..  https://youtu.be/Dyw1OvYUKL0

They mix so well there is a 2% reduction in volume!. The fact that it's statistically impossible for you not to be the only human to have seen this (seeing as how you're complaining about it, and presumably someone else posted it), in no way suggests that even a majority of the people on this site have seen this demo, let alone suggesting that it had been standardized in any school you didn't attend.. Plz post formula and calculation. This seems contradictory to any reasonable inference system.. I see you missed the part where i said don’t let it mix too much. I’m saying if you carefully pour the alcohol down the side of the container while it’s tilted, so that it isn’t agitated, it will float and only mix at the interface. Of course once they get mixed it’ll remain in solution, and that’s why we were talking about how vodka doesn’t separate.

I’m sorry for the misunderstanding, you should probably go back and read the context again.. So, only since your being such a long winded dick about it.. my original comment was "Please, show me that.." which you have utterly failed to do.. and btw you never said "don't let it mix too much" anywhere except maybe your own mind. When you carefully pour liquor alcohols together, they will layer due to variance in density mostly from added sugars.

Until you demonstrate otherwise I call bs on your vague science, and doubt I will reply further to this thread because it is silly. A page from Einstein's 1912 notebook with his works on relativity. nan. wait he didn't even use latex?. He hadn't reached the point where he said 'fuck it. I'm not writing these sigmas anymore'.. What are the curly brackets with indices in them?. Very cool. The first line is the Ricci tensor, expressed in terms of the Christoffel symbol.  Looks like the rest of the page is working out some details.

He isn't quite using the standard conventions (Einstein summation convention etc) but you can still see what he is doing.  I believe that he is using gamma to denote the inverse metric.

Edit: I think that the top line of text says "Grossman", who was Einstein's collaborator on a 1913 paper which outlined the application of differential geometry to gravity.  The full theory of general relativity wasn't published until 1915.. Need to show this to everyone who posts in r/AskPhysics talking about how even though they've never taken a physics course, they're sure they've discovered the grand unified theory.... German sure is a strange language.. Beautiful. Having just completed my course on General Relativity, it is very cool that I recognise some things! For example, the expression at the top should be the Riemann curvature tensor, and in the third row I see the formula for the Christoffel symbol (here written with the curly brackets). He used Leibnitz notation cause he was BASED. A work of art. looks like my diff eq hw but he actually knows what he's doing.. Not a physicist, but I speak German, so maybe this helps:

First line says“ Grossmann“
Second line says „let g be a scalar, then T_i is a Tensor of first rank/ order“

Left downwards pointing curly bracket: tensor of second rank

Right downwards pointing curly bracket: „suspected gravitational tensor T_il“

„further transformation of the gravitational tensor“

„If we assume (some sum), then this is equal“


In the bottom I think it says Fourier and Himans?. This is from someone who said they are not good at maths :). Bro was kinda cracked ngl. god, I hate tensors. Pre-digital-age reasoning of this depth kind of blows my mind. It's entirely abstract reasoning without the aid of simulations, models, computer aided proofs, solvers, etc.. Yeah, this makes total sense. It's so painfully obvious when you see it, it's a wonder it took so long to discover. What were we thinking???

And no, I don't understand any of it. Pretty though.... More numbers are used to denote the year it was made than exist on the paper itself.. how does it feel, to write symbols in a piece of paper but can literally move mountains. it must feel so alive like 100x cocaine.. I'm currently watching the first season of Genius, but I haven't gotten to here yet.

For me he's still in the patent office.. Fun fact: there’s a programme based at Caltech that aims to compile and make publicly available Einstein’s writings and notes, called the Einstein Papers Project (see https://www.einstein.caltech.edu). I was tangentially involved as a student, helping to transcribe loose pages of his handwritten notes into LaTeX for a couple of months. Though, I could not understand at all what his notes were about…. Amazing doesn’t seem like we made a lot of progress since then. Phew. Even Einstein slipped up on index notation. This popped up in my feed. 

Anyone who can understand this is a different level human. I don't even feel like I share the same lineage, like I'm some sort of Denisovan with a job and mortgage puttering along in my own oblivious timeline.. I am a novice, so forgive me, but it blows my mind… how he was able to conceptualize so much about the laws of our universe through mathematical formulas. Like how can he know, through math, that black holes exist? Or that pulsar stars exist and fall towards each other at a rate of 7 millimeters / year.. Einstein was smart as hell man. The answer is 37.. XD. I can't see it on a mobile device, but it looks more like GR than SR. There is no "theory of relativity".. [deleted]. Glad to see my handwriting isn't the only bad one out there 🫠 (I've always struggled with writing, not dissing Einstein obv he a god). Heh those are funny looking squiggles. Yay time for TikTok, Bye!. Can only admire what i cannot understand. "tensor" was the only term I could recognize hahaha. Can anyone translate the german parts?. And then he got her number and said, “How do you like them apples?”. That is really cancer tier notation for Christoffel symbols. I’d have to take his word for it…. Very interesting Numbers indeed. That doesn't make sense ...throw it out. Can anyone actually explain what any of the formula means? I would like to understand it, and he himself said:

“If you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.”
Albert Einstein. You can see here the bastard created Einstein notation (sometimes called tensor notation) which still haunts me to this day.. I think I see Fourier? I love the crossed out symbols just like me when my handwriting is so bad I need a do over. I see checking if pen is working by scribbling in upper left corner was a thing back then, so pen manufacturing has dry ink problem for more than a century.. I can finally relate to Einstein.

I don't understand the equations, but i feel the pain correcting errors in the subscripts.. I love how it's really neat and legible until about mid-way down the page he realized he was running out of room and started squishing everything together lol relatable. There's no E=mc², is he stupid? \s. Imagine if you spotted a tiny mistake like a decimal point out of place and you just solved science.. I see deltas, Alphas, Kappas, betas, sigmas… So I guess I can’t say it’s all Greek to me. But is that German?  No wonder I never fully understood general relativity…
Super cool though to look at some of his original notes.. Has anyone else noticed how all these notebooks from famous physicists contain so few crossed-out mistakes?. I wonder how his original notes look like - no corrections at all. If. He did this in the first try, he clearly was even more genius than I thought. Yes. Looks good to me 👍. That summation notation would come in handy. Factoid: Einstein always found TiKz very difficult, and contrary to non-euclidean geometry, he didn't have any friends that could teach him.. Be glad, if it wasn't for his use of an e-ink tablet we wouldn't have his digitized notes at all! Just weird he chose the sepia background. The only person who can read a scientist's notes is the author of those notes. Thank God for latex. why would he? with pen it is easier to write on paper than on latex no?. What is latex? 😅. He was a smart kid, he used Lyx or one of those text processors at the time that changed everything onto Latex. He really should have invented Einstein notation.. My sigmas devolve into mirror 3 with each iteration. Einstein was a man of sheer will.. Christoffel symbols

See applications:
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christoffel_symbols. >He isn't quite using the standard conventions (Einstein summation convention etc) 

i thought so too, but then i saw its from 1912, which was well after his major developments in GR, so i wasn't sure and my inability to read cursive didnt help either.. shouldn't it be "Grassmann"? Full name was Hermann Grassmann.. I’m skeptical this would do anything to dissuade them.. his handwriting isn‘t making it better. It‘s really tidy but it‘s kinda hard to read. How so? It’s a pretty regular language, you might as well say. English is pretty strange. All this doesn’t mean anything beyond opinion. . I'm in awe. Same feeling as looking at Codex Forster.. Actually the top line is the Ricci tensor, not the Riemann tensor. 

The third line is the derivative of the Christoffel symbol, with indices contracted to give one of the terms in the Ricci tensor.  Fifth line is the square of the Christoffel symbol, also with indices contracted to give the Ricci tensor.. Its cool when they do it on a blackboard with that screeching white chalk, fill it up, turn around and pronouce.. 

"its a goddamned zero I tells ya... ZEHERE AH OO !"

(Jaws drop). i think it was before he used his summation convention. (I cant read cursive :( ). Layman here does Riemann curvature is an attempt to explain the bending of light in space?. Doesn't everyone, like since the 1700's?. This is from someone who could shame just about any physicist in mathematics but chose to be humble publicly.. Someday I will remember the difference between covariant and contravariant. . At this stage in physics, there aren't any numbers to work with because each symbol is actually shorthand for something complicated and that is meant to simplify things. There aren't any numbers because this level of physics doesn't use any.. I think I have an idea of the feeling, and it is overwhelming. I’ve worked on equations describing interpersonal relationships and economics- and the raw emotion of putting those heavy concepts into math is pure ecstasy.. he was way ahead of his time. It's just about training and practice. Nothing here is unapproachable to a sufficiently persistent person.
Thinking that there is some exclusive greatness in what are trainable skills both devalues the effort of physicists who make the effort to learn and the ability of lay people to do so if they wish to.. Understanding this is challenging but coming up with it is next level impressive. What can ya do.. mr Bolt runs fast af Eistein et al do 1k lifetimes work in normal people time in 2 decades. Being a decent human bean and supporting these people from the future is the next best thing.. And yet he didn't LaTeX his notes /s. Or 42. ? Except for the typos on some of the indices, his handwriting looks pretty good.. The writing looks very elegant to me, just look at the H of himan's. What? This is very tidy handwriting. I found it clear to read. What is tikz? Never heard of it.. That's actually just coz the eink tablet got dusty so when we took a photo of the tablet to upload it came up yellow. I disagree.  I can't even read my own notes.. No, there's a famous story relating specifically to that. When the printer got Einstein's hand-written notes on General Relativity, he noticed that whenever 2 tensors were being multiplied all of the sigmas were the same so he just deleted them because its usage in the text was unambiguous after the first one.   
That notation is still used and it's called "Einstein's Printer's notation". I find his notes suprisingly easy to read. 

"Wenn G ein Skalar ist, dann [equation] Tensor 1. Ranges"

"Weitere Umformung des Gravitationstensors"

Some of my profs had far worse hand writing in lectures.... LaTeX is a software system for setting (typesetting) documents, it's essentially a programming language for formatting what a page will look like. It's hugely productive because you simply write the content under templates typically and the content will be formatted in exactly the same way every time. Take a look at any journal submission and it will be formated using LaTeX which is why all the articles are the same style (form).. LaTeX is a math language. gotta coin that right quick in a hurry before someone else does.. I feel like when you see the derivation and you are writing it out, your handwriting quality must go down. Your mind is in flow state and is not focused on making it pretty. I understand some of these words. Wikipedia says that the summation convention was introduced in 1916 so I'm not surprised that in 1912 Einstein's notes include something that is close to (but was not quite) summation notation.  Actually he is dropping some but not all summation symbols, so at least in some expressions he is using the usual summation convention.. Doesn’t help that it’s written in German. I think it is Grossman, for Marcel Grossman (Einsten’s collaborator in 1913). Hermann Grassman is someone else.. They'll just use [CrackpotIndex](https://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/crackpot.html) No. 15. Pretty sure they're just joking, as if all the mathematical notation was German. Also, even as someone not from an English speaking country, English is the de facto language of the internet, science, etc. so, in some way, we are all used to it and that makes it fairly "regular".. It’s all the crazy symbols that are throwing me, I can’t make sense of them.. i think the british stuck with Newton notation for a while out of pride, then ditched it cause no one else used it.

But Eistein was german anyway so it doesnt even apply to him lol.. man, I really want to experience that feeling. how long have u math? im stupid af, I cant even remember what I ate yesterday. Cant even imagine im doing any math.. Well said. 

For me, I will look ahead to when there will be an artificial intelligence so inhumanly patient, so exactingly precise in its training methods that it could get my brain to comprehend a line or two of these sepia pages.. I wonder if people have just forgotten how to read cursive. I've been berated for similar handwriting in literature courses all my life. It has been a very real problem for me at least to the point I stopped handwriting altogether after university.

That said, it could also be related to carpal tunnel on my end. you just made that shit up. Hardly, it's good at typesetting math but it's for document preparation. I hereby claim it and it shall evermore be known as Ploppy Cheese Noseation!. Fr fr. oh yeah, thats so cool! We are seeing the formation of the summation convention!. Because you happen not to know German?. Good one, bookmarked!

A modern day addition would be that it's chatGPT verified.. Partial derivatives and some other notations. you can probably experience that feeling with meth too. The first time I remember starting to do math for fun and trying to come up with new stuff was a bit over 10 years ago. I went on to get a degree in engineering with a minor in math, and then got a masters in engineering. Now I tutor math for K-12 and college students.. Funny, right? But I actually didn't make it up: there really is an "Einstein's printer's notation"...physicists still laugh about it because a printer kinda "corrected" Einstein and made a change Einstein and other physicists approved of. No physicist at the time would dare but the printer didn't give a shit or even know.. [deleted]. sorry i don’t do drugs.. I always hate maths. Symbols, numbers, yuks. But one memes makes me think math in a other perspective. here is the meme https://ibb.co/WyHMtfS

From this memes, I get the feeling that math can be use to explain every single thing no matter how complex it is, in its pure form. its like the very fundamental tools for understanding. is it like that?. Source or didn't Einstein. I think it’s German.. No: There is no "source" for a printer's work aside from Einstein's initial publication. You can look up the story if you wish, this is what I was told by physicists while I was in grad school and, indeed, the specialized use of "no sigmas" for tensors in General Relativity had to have SOME source so I see no reason to bother finding out whether it was true or not.. > the specialized use of "no sigmas" for tensors in General Relativity had to have SOME source so I see no reason to bother finding out whether it was true or not.

Ah yes, the pinnacle of historical analysis. "I heard a rumor and just assumed it was 100% true".

There in fact is a source: The first appearance of the notation in the historical record is *in a letter* sent by Einstein to Paul Ehrenfest in January 1916 (https://einsteinpapers.press.princeton.edu/vol8-trans/211). There would've been no way a printer interfered in a personal correspondence where the choice of notation is explicitly described.

The first printed occurrence of the notation appeared in Einstein's paper "Die Grundlage der allgemeinen Relativitätstheorie" ("The Foundation of the General Theory of Relativity") published in Annalen der Physik in 1916. Einstein's choice to omit the summation symbols was, again, *explicitly described in the text*. See here: https://einsteinpapers.press.princeton.edu/vol6-trans/170 (original here: https://einsteinpapers.press.princeton.edu/vol6-doc/324).

Einstein's work has been well studied by historians and physicists interested in history. If your story really is "totally true", then surely there are many references to the story by physicists and historians in the written record. Can you provide any?. So in other words I was basically right. My rumor came from physicists (one of them Vera Rubin) who had it heard it from other physicists. It's interesting I got the subject matter and year of publication correct just by hearsay...I suspect it's possible the printer marked-up a draft prior to publication pointing out the redundancy of always bothering with the summations and Einstein recognized he was correct and changed the draft prior to printing.. >So in other words I was basically right.

The fact that Einstein used the notation first in a personal correspondence *before* it appeared in print suggests otherwise.

> My rumor came from physicists (one of them Vera Rubin) who had it heard it from other physicists.

A game of telephone is not how proper historical analysis is done. Just because someone is a famous physicist, it doesn't automatically make them an authority of the history of physics (and certainly not an expert on events which transpired over a decade before they were even born).

> It's interesting I got the subject matter and year of publication correct just by hearsay

No it isn't. The subject matter (Einstein summation convention) is obvious because that's what we're talking about. You didn't mention the year of publication in your previous comments. In any case, the exact year of introduction is not particularly relevant to the discussion.

> I suspect it's possible the printer marked-up a draft prior to publication pointing out the redundancy of always bothering with the summations and Einstein recognized he was correct and changed the draft prior to printing.

If this is true, then that means that there's a written record of this, a "source" if you will, which you earlier claimed does not exist:
> No: There is no "source" for a printer's work aside from Einstein's initial publication.. As an addendum I believe I remember hearing it ended up being an important practical matter, because the printer didn't have sufficient numbers of sigma "blocks" available (no word processors in those days) so he contacted Einstein and pointed out the redundancy, because otherwise the paper wasn't really printable.. He never said it’s proper historical analysis. He said he heard it. And someone said “you just made it up”

Clearly he didn’t make it up. So he’s right. 

Even if the story isnt true.. I'm telling you I heard this from physicists who probably heard it from Einstein himself. It's apparently not widely known. Not everything in reality made it to the internet, kid.. Thus the difference between clicking on shit on the internet to do "research" versus having actually lived out there, as an applied physicist.. Exactly. It's a tale physicists were transmitting to each other through a big chunk of the 20th century. And it certainly has the appearance of "truth" so I'll choose to believe it until it is proven to be inaccurate.. He is trying to claim the rumor he heard is a true historical fact. There's no evidence the rumor is true, so therefore he cannot claim with reasonable certainty that he is right.. Shouldn't it be the other way around though? Why believe a rumor with absolute certainty without any evidence? Isn't it good scientific practice to require actual evidence to support your claims?. No he’s claiming he heard a rumor. That’s it. 

Someone said he made he up.  He proved he didn’t make it up. 


The truth of the story as fact is an entire secondary discussion that happened afterward. Imagine someone in your town telling you "that crack in the sidewalk was made when old man withers was fixing his store's sign and a bucket of paint fell and cracked the sidewalk". Would you bother saying, "HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT'S TRUE? CAN YOU PROVE IT?" And the guy says, "Old Man Withers' son told me the story...why should I try to "prove" it?" I don't care that much either way but I have no reason to doubt the STORY. Animation of Quantum Tunneling. nan. So in the legend, I see the Imaginary part is blue, but for the life of me I cannot see what colors the other two are supposed to be. Over the past week, I've been programming various numerical methods for my independent study in quantum mechanics and made this! The potential the particle is under is V(x) = 175(x\^4-x\^2). (it's more of a toy model than anything else) What is show here is the time evolution of a 50/50 superposition of the first and second energy eigenstates. Around x=0 is the "classically forbidden region," where a classical particle would not be to get over the central barrier. This is not the case in quantum mechanics, and has some interesting applications. Let me know if you have any questions!. As my supervisor likes to say, “using red and green for comparisons is just cruel”. Avoid using that combination of colors for visualization.. I'm not too deep into qm, but shouldn't your eigenstates be normalized?

And i personally like it to see the potential ploted as well, e.g., with a dashed line, this could really help to understand where the interesting part is happening..:). The grass is always eigen on the other side.. I know this isn't the place for it, but I'm an interested observer- Can anyone ELI5?. Despite that the legend has the wrong colors, this is a great animation. It is easy to see the probablity function of the wave change during the tunneling. Also it is easy to see the change in the amplitude over the real and image plane. It would be interesting to see how the wave phase changes as well.. Nice animation, can I ask you what is the potential you are considering?. How do you get matplotlib to make videos? I see youve mentioned ffmpeg; did you generate a bunch of frames and use a separate tool to make a video?. I think your legend is off. Just wondering, Should a high school science student be getting inferiority complexions from this clip or the comments below talking in alien lingos?!
Cuz sure as hell I'm gettin' some. Is this like the transfer of matter or what. I’m a high school physics student, can somebody explain this to me in fairly simple terms?. How do you code this?. I was listening to music while I was scrolling and Gosh by Jamie XX is playing which is the same speed as the video lmao it’s really satisfying to look at. Can someone please explain to me what I am looking at? Like... simply, preferably?. Congrats for the job! Is that python?. Very cool. I have one question about this. I've always thought that quantum tunnelling was caused by a tiny part of the wavefunction going on past the barier, meaning there is a slight change to find the particle on the other side when measured. But what I'm seeing here is that the entire wave function slides to the other side. Does this mean the probability of finding it on the other side will be nearly a 100% after a while?. Matlab? Or Mathematica? Never mind I see it’s Python.. Now visualize it in 4 dimensions.. Would somebody care to explain the symbols?. All I no about Quantum tunneling is that is is when a object goes through a barrier blocking its path to vacuum. Ohhhh. Can someone with an actual brain explain what I am looking at. Thank you!. What's quantum tunneling?. This looks even cooler when visualized using the wigner function.. r/dataisbeautiful. I tried to ask Siri what is quantum tunneling, but it was a bit over my head and I still don’t understand what I’m watching here. Can someone ELI5 this please?. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Unfortunately, the legend is completely messed up. I think this has to do with the horrible compression ffmpeg put it through. The blue, green, and red curve are |\\psi|\^2, Re(\\psi), and Img(\\psi) respectively. Even the one color you can see on the legend isn't even colored right... Sorry about the confusion!. Well the probability can never be negative so something is very wrong with the colors. >I've been programming various numerical methods for my independent study in quantum mechanics

Your studies are progressing well.. Awesome animation!. very cool! my accel'd Master's project is simulating a dual-species BEC collision, and I've fallen in love with this sort of work. What is the time step for each frame?. What method are you using?   

Also I’d Write the potential something like x^4 - a x^2.   What is eigenvalue  spectrum  as a function of a.. Which methods do you use? I've been working with the Fourier Grid Hamiltonian and various ways to propagate in time but have had trouble with the changes in space. My potential is a potential Energy curve for a diatomic molecule. Haha, will keep that in mind for the future.. I was told not to use red and blue. Something something, the wavelengths are too different and your eyes has to adjust to see one or the other.. Not like it matters when it's the real and imaginary part of a wave function though.. This is a really good question! They are in fact normalized. The important thing here is that |\\psi|\^2 is the \*probability distribution\*, and although probabilities \*always\* lie between zero and one (inclusive), the distribution may not. If I were to integrate along this curve, then my integration over the entire curve will be 1 as expected.. Seconded on plotting the potential. Also showing the energy eigenstates in the wells and having the probability density plotted on top of the energy eigenstates is a good way to visualize the transmission.. I'll give it a go. In quantum mechanics, that state of a system is given by the wavefunction \psi. If you have your hands on \psi, you can obtain everything you want to know about the system. Perhaps the most important thing about \psi is that when you square it you get the probability distribution of where the particle is likely to be found. (higher area under the curve means more likely) In the animation, this is the blue curve. Another key property is that adding two valid wave functions together gives you another possible one. This with the squaring thing allows for "interference" to happen. (like adding sines and cosines together) Next, we model our forces using the idea of a potential. This isn't the easiest thing to ELI5, but our potential in this problem has "two humps." In classical physics, if you don't have enough energy to go over a hill, you never will. Now, physics would be pretty boring if nothing ever moved. The Schrodinger equation tells you how to move \psi forward in time. In this problem, we start with our particle on the right side of our potential with not enough energy to get over. However, the quantum model predicts the particle can "tunnel" to the other side. This is represented in the animation when the particle slowly moves to the other side without creating a large bump in the middle. (the middle is the "classically forbidden region") The amazing thing is that this phenomenon has actually been observed and used in the lab. Hopefully this helps you understand the animation at least a tiny bit!. Thanks! Took a lot of hard work to make. :D. For this animation in particular, the potential is V(x) = 175(x\^4-x\^2). In general, the potential I'm using looks like V(x) = 0.5\*m\*\\alpha\^2(x\^4-\\beta\^2\*x\^2). Unlike the harmonic oscillator potential, there are kinda "two dips." For this reason, it's called (or potentials that look similar to it) the double well potential. It has a lot of applications, but I'm not that far in my studies, so I couldn't go into much detail about them. :D. Well it’s got potential for educating new quantum students at least ^^^^waka ^^^^waka!. I used Matplotlib to graph the functions at each time step, save them to disk (with Matplotlib), and then turn the pictures into a video using ffmpeg. Matplotlib makes graphing super easy because you can chunk it your x and y coordinates and it handles the rest. Most of the code is dedicated to actually computing the allowed energies and eigenstates.. Nearly everything sounds like alien lingo when you haven't studied it yet. Algebra looks like wizardry to an elementary school student. I'm only a sophomore in college, so you're closer than you might think! I was in your exact same position just a few years ago. :P The bar just keeps on moving forward. The things I want to eventually study look super complicated right now, but given time I'll eventually get there.. No way! Just read up on it if you’re interested. In high school I would have had literally no clue about any of this. I’m a few years into my physics PhD now. You are not behind at all!. If you like math and physics you'll be looking at solutions to the time dependent shroedinger equation before you can truly relate to Taylor Swift's classic masterpiece "22." Just make sure your trig and ideally calc are solid before you head off to uni.. Definitely not, I'll pretend surprise if this was \*required\* from OP at college.  More like grad school stuff.. In a sense, yes. It's a particle moving in a double well potential. Unlike the harmonic oscillator potential, it has two humps with a central barrier. Classically, if you started on the right side with low energy you would never reach the other side. In quantum mechanics, however, it is possible to tunnel to lower (or equal) energy. Note how you never see a large bump in the middle. In a sense, it "appears" on the other side.. Yup! I find it to be the easiest language to work with for data visualization and computation.. Yes, there are points where the probability to find it on the other side of where it started is 100%. Your intuition about tunneling is very good for potentials where there is one barrier and constant everywhere else. The potential here is proportional to x^4-x^2. I recommend graphing this in Desmos. You'll see it acts like a parabola far away (so think harmonic oscillator) and there is a small hill with a local maximum at x=0. I added together two solutions that correspond to energy less than V=0 and you're seeing the animation of that play out evolving it forward in time. That tunneling effect you mention happens, but the probability gets thrown back by the harmonic oscillator nature of the potential. Hopefully this explanation helps a little!. I've never heard of it. I'll have to look it up!. Quantum tunneling is when a particle is at one side of a barrier that it has too little energy to cross, but it still crosses it because of quantum mechanics. The relevant part of this animation is the blue line—the particle is most likely to be at the points where it is highest. You can see that the particle starts out on the right and then slowly tunnels through the potential barrier in the middle (the barrier is not shown). > ndeed, in the standard description of tunneling, energy must be “borrowed” from the barrier in exactly that way.

I have never seen a description of tunneling that implies this. It's an evanescent wave in the wavefunction picture which explicitly has no net energy flow.. >Indeed, in the standard description of tunneling, energy must be “borrowed” from the barrier in exactly that way. 

The barrier is static, so that isn't true. It's more like, you don't need energy to get through a barrier if your wave is wider than the barrier and extends through it. Squeezing the entire wave into the barrier would take energy, but that's not what's happening.. I really like the point you brought up. Perhaps another important factor at play here are the timescales involved. This is on the more extreme side of things, but we would agree that a mountain is "stationary" over the time of a day. If we look at larger and larger timescales though, we would no longer be convinced that it was 100% stationary (erosion and other natural processes happen). The same thing can probably be said to happen here. There may be cases where we have to think of how the particle interacts with the potential, but that effect may be negligible compared to the time these atomic processes happen. (for example, when a particle "tunnels out" of a nucleus, it's gone) I'm just a math student, so I would love to hear some more discussion about this.. What you’re looking at is the wavefunction. You can think of the area under the curve as the probability of finding the particle in a given interval, upon observation. But really it’s a “wave” on both sides at once.

In this case, you’re watching how a given wavefunction evolves over time. At the beginning the particle is definitely on the starting side.. You can't actually observe any of the lines in the animation. If you make a position measurement you will end up on either side of the barrier with the probability shown by the blue line. In that sense it is "instantaneous" when you take a measurement.. Nope. Your legend is messed up because you first plotted the black lines that you are using as X and Y axis, and then plotted the other three curves (abs\^2, real, imaginary) after. So when you called the legend function with the three strings, they got assigned in the order that the lines were plotted (X axis black line got labeled as mag squared, Y axis black line got labeled as real, and blue curve got labeled as imaginary.

Try plotting the three curves first, and then the X and Y axis black lines, and then call the legend function with the three strings; you'll see that the legend will show up correctly.. That explains a few things, I was trying to figure out why/how the imaginary component was the largest. [deleted]. [deleted]. thanks for clearing that up thought i was going color blind lol. Thanks! It took about 140 lines of Python code... A lot of that code will be useful for future projects though!. I’m always interested in finding a new way for simulation of a bec.   What method are you using?  How many dimensions? 

I usually sure a spit setup Fourier method, but have been playing with a crank nicolson method recently.. For the purposes of animation, I just took 500 uniformly sampled times from 0 to 4\\pi and "ignored" the \\hbar term. Rigorously, I'm working in units of t scaled by \\hbar.. I am using the shooting method to obtain accuracy of the energy levels to six decimal places (I could go higher of course, but this suffices for animation purposes). With the way I have written in the description, the first negative energy levels appears at about alpha = 50 and the second at around alpha = 175. (but haven't looked far beyond thar) What would be the advantage in writing it your form? It looks like kinda like the form I got when I tried nondimensionalization of V(x)=0.5ma^2 (x^4 - b^2 x^2 ). Is that the reason? (sorry if I'm being super vague). I'm using the shooting method. For higher dimensions, I'm not sure exactly 100% what you'd do, but I'd imagine you can separate and do the same procedure. MIT OCW has a good lecture over the shooting method in the Quantum Physics 1 resutation playlist.. If you need 3 colors, your best bet is blue, orange, and black. There is a reason reddit's upvotes are orange and downvotes are blue.. this is very cool, I'm in my first year of uni and physics is looking like my path. Don't understand 95% of what's being discussed here, but seems pretty epic. Thanks for the eli5.. Yes, this potential is at the base of the theory of phase transitions. I find it very interesting to look at the wave behaviour.  The reason is that the tunneling is related to the 1-D nature of your problem: in order to reach the other minimum of the potential, the wave function has to go through the barrier. If you instead consider the analogous problem in a two dimensional space, the wave function doesn't need to tunnel because all the minima of your potential are connected among themselves now. This fact is at the origin of Goldstone modes ( 0 energy modes "connecting" degenerate ground states of your system, which can't exist in 1-D ). It's amazing!. Well.  A lot has the consideration of thermodynamics.. or more specifically entropy and how everything should balance all.. after all that's what potential really is. Now.. figuring the exact balances and meta science behind it is the real question.  The tunneling and equilibrium could be playing out in the whole universe or even orher dimensions, maube a dual proposal could be enough,, so is really hard for us to measure with the security necessary to affirm what is happening..

But the quantum model stands so far..  maybe it is just a matter of communicating right... You are a hero! XD I *never* would have caught that. Thank you!. You're 100% correct. The potential is of the form V(x) = 175(x^4-x^2), which has a finite potential barrier in the middle. I plotted a superposition of the first and second negative energy states, so the wavepacket has an energy lower than the barrier.. The probability distribution is the norm squared of the wave function, and a number near zero gets much smaller after squaring it. This is a really good observation though, because at first glance it implies that it is possible to detect the particle in the classically forbidden region. The uncertainty in this region is very high though, so in practice you won't detect it there.. Could you post it?. Yeah, using Crank-Nicholson, w Thomas method to solve the laplacian. And in 2D, my post-doc did 1D before me. I met scaling early in my life, but never truly appreciated it until later on. Now scaling is my best friend in the world.. Interesting! I have so much more to learn, so I'm excited about this class. :D. Glad I could help. Keep up the good work!. Thank you, I forgot it was the square.. I should be able to upload it tomorrow. When I do, I'll post the link!. Isn’t the Thomas method only for tridiagonal systems?   In 2d you’ll have a matrix with 5 diagonals right? (0 +/-1 and +/- N)

If there a way to do this with a tridiagonal matrix please let me know. > laplacian

The Laplace operator is so two thousand and late. If you're not working with the z axis as well, what's the point?. [removed]. using alternating direction, each direction is a single tridiagonal of (1 -2 1)*(hbar/dx^2). Lol. Ok that would work, but wonder if its faster than solving both dimensions simultaneously.   

I did a quick look and found nothing, I guess I’ll have to do some benchmarking. Anne L'Huillier coming out of her office after winning the Nobel Prize. I took this picture just as Anne came out of her office after hanging up the call with Stockholm. I am so excited to be working in the same division (atomic physics) as a Nobel Prize laureate. She is even so humble about it, what a great person! 5° woman in history to ever win the prize in Physics (over 224 total since 1901).. It's so weird to see all these Lund physicists turn up at Reddit. Why is it I'm the only one I see redditing at work?

Kind regards,  
Fifth door or so on the left. Least apocalypse bunker looking physics building.. Beautiful. She seems like a fairly warm person for a 5° woman.. Women are on a roll after a 55 year drought. 3 in the last 6 years. I have many friends in the year above who were attending her lecture when she got the call. I have to say that I envy them a bit haha :).

Awesome picture.

Har inte jättemycket koll på hennes arbete men vet du om arbetet utfördes här på LTH?. That’s gotta be a bad a$$ feeling!. 🥳 🥳🥳🥳 congrats on an incredible accomplishment,  and thank you for sharing 💞. I hope she comes to Uppsala soon to give a talk. Is she your supervisor by any chance OP?. Thank you for sharing. Her work is incredible.. Am I crazy or is the phone in the foreground showing a person that the larger picture isn't? The person wearing all dark clothes, apparently walking away from the camera.. That's so cool thanks for sharing the pic. was this the result of an affirmative action ? asking for a friend as I don't know her or her work !. They're all redditing properly and are appropriately ashamed of being caught.

I'll show myself out

Edited to add: thanks for the "reddit cares" submission  guys. It was a joke. I thought physicists were supposed to have a sense of humour?. From what reference frame, the 5th door on the left?. growth mourn summer tap amusing busy different correct fear decide

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*. Here’s to hoping the trend continues as more women who entered the field in the last half of the twentieth century have their contributions recognized! Maybe the lagging indicator that is the Nobel has finally caught up to the field.. Why only 55 years. As far as I understand it, we're only in like generation 3 or 4 of women having more or less full equal access to society, namely science.. Njae, den officiella motivationen refererade till hennes forskning i Frankrike på 80-talet. Men hon har fortsatt forska på angränsande teknik även sedan hon började på LTH.. Priset gavs för samma typ av forskning som hon bedriver nu, fast över en ganska lång tidsperiod som sträcker sig bak till tidigt 90-tal. En en del av de resultaten som användes i motivationen till priset utfördes i Lund, men långt ifrån alla.. Nope, she isn't! I only had a course with her some month ago about light matter interaction. Her husband however is my co-supervisor! Also, I see her practically everyday since she's basically the boss of the "attogroup" of my division (atomic physics). It's on a wide angle setting. Notice how much of the ceiling is on the screen and how distorted it is.. I took a long hard look at the picture and have come to the conclusion that it is actually her based on how the rest of the photo/video looks, and across all the phones. It would be very weird if it wasn’t her because they are trying to capture her image, where the f is she otherwise. Doing some wide angle shooting it points to it being the woman herself.. Can't tell which door is mine, I'm always looking for the white Christmas ornament on the door handle. So I just guessed a number.. No, worst time for a chunk of the department to go on a retreat :(

But yeah, based on how cool she was about the Wolf prize last year, I imagine this isn't going to her head any time soon.. Nobel is definitely a lagging indicator, particularly in some fields (looking at you, astrophysics). It may be much longer before some of those fields see many women in their nobel prizes.. They mean from when the last time a woman won before this current streak. Before 2018, the last woman to win was Maria Goeppert-Mayer in 1963. That's a 55 year gap.. [deleted]. Well the ceiling itself looks curved in the main pic also, but yeah that makes sense anyway. Amazing how much the optics of different cameras can change what a scene feels like.. Thank you for answering my question. I don't get what you mean by this. I asked my question because I assumed sexism had held back women for much longer than 55 years and was confused as to why that was the cutoff OP was referring to, but my questions been answered so now I know the reason why.. Sorry. I misunderstood your comment to mean that you thought sexism had ended 55 years ago in Physics. Astronomers have discovered a star traveling at 8% the speed of light, 24000 km/s around the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way!. nan. Astronomers at the University of Cologne in Germany have announced the discovery of a fast moving star orbiting the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way, usually referred to as Sagittarius A\*. The discovery was announced in the [Astronomers Telegram](http://www.astronomerstelegram.org/?read=13935) and has been published in [the Astrophysical Journal](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/ab9c1c#apjab9c1cf10). EDIT: Free to read copy of the paper is available on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.04764).

The star S4714 has been detected with the European Southern Observatory's (ESO) Very Large Telescope (VLT) orbiting very close to the black hole at a speed of 24,000 km/s (53.7 million miles per hour) at a highly elliptical orbit and has a pericenter passage distance of only 12.6 AU. For comparison, the famous [S2 star](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eysecnh7yqc) reaches the closest approach distance of 120 AU, and has a speed of 7500 km/s (\~3% speed of light).

The star is about twice as massive as the Sun, has an orbital period of \~12 years, and is among a population of similar kind of stars detected in the vicinity of Sagittarius A\* and some of them likely spend significant time within the orbit of S2.

Close monitoring of these stars, especially with the GRAVITY instrument on the VLT, will help us understand the General Relativistic (GR) effects on their orbits, and look for post-GR corrections to gravity in the vicinity of a black hole. Astronomers have used the S2 star for these studies [before](https://www.eso.org/public/news/eso2006/), but these closer stars will allow for study with better precision.. Time dilation is only 4 hours per year at 0.08 c for anyone interested.. How does it not get torn apart by the immense tidal forces?. Fucking hell.  8% doesn't usually sound like much, but when you're talking about the speed limit of reality.... What an amazing site it would be to behold.. Fascinating.. Could a spacecraft gain crazy amounts of speed doing a gravity assist around a star going 8% the speed of light?. Do stars so close to a massive gravity well age faster than a similar sized star out in the galaxy's arms? How much faster?. gotta go fast. Shouldn’t the foci of all ellipses match on the black hole position? S4711 seems off by a lot!. So, how much long till the star gets “pulled” into the black hole? What parameters do we need to know to calculate that? I’m guessing gravitational force would be one but we would need to know the mass of the black hole for that right?. Hey! I know almost nothing about physics, imagine that I understood a lot about the matter, by only observing the image would I be able to suppose all the information in the title?. That's 24,000,000 m/s. Earth chugs through the milky way at like 460 m/s? Dude is whizzing by pretty quick.

These are the people in your neighborhood.. Maybe I’m just dumb, but why are some of these graphs so obscure? Can anyone explain to me what’s being plotted here?. [deleted]. All other stars: 😑

This star:nnnnnnnnnyyyyyyooooommmmmmm😬. Shouldn't all the focal points of the ellipses in the figure align? What am Imissing? Some projection thing?. Why are there so many stars with eccentric orbits around Sagittarius A*? Much like the formation of the solar system, shouldn't everything settled (smashed or flung away) into more regular orbits on somewhat of a similar plane?. Now this is what’s fun about being an astronomer. [deleted]. Ludicrous speed!! GO!!!. Damn those forces are terrifying. It's so impossible for me to imagine just how much force that BH is putting out to be able to whip something as absolutely massive as a star around a tight elliptical curve at that speed. 

Positively blows my tiny human brain.. https://youtu.be/BJ0xBCwkg3E. Is that a lot?. That gets me thinking. I wonder how fast a large body like that would have to move to continue orbiting if it got closer.
Like, for example, if it were just beyond the black hole's horizon line, I would think that the star would need to be moving at close-to-light speeds?. Relative to what?. If the stars mass is big enough to hold it together while that near to the BH, how ist the BH strong enough (in terms of gravitational force) to let the whole galaxy spin around it? That seems contrary to each other. But I also suck at physics, soo... Would this throw off gravity waves like the kind LIGO measures?. would it affect star's spherical shape? (into pear or something like that?). What would its speed at apoapsis be?. What's the average speed for a star? 1%?. Could someone explain relative velocity to me please? I’m probably wrong, but does that mean we are traveling at 8% the speed of light from that stars perspective? And if so, are we traveling the speed of light if viewed from light? Is there some center point we use as a reference for speed?. What makes the orbits of planets and stars elliptical rather than a perfect circle?. What frame of reference is used to measure the star's speed?. Damn that’s pretty fast. If we ever get some space alien enemy that's super dangerous we should figure out how to go get that start and throw it at them.. it must be compressed due to length contraction at 0.08c. So essentially, this star is to the black hole what a comet is to the sun. Fascinating.. Somebody please explain to me how they’re able to actually detect and see these things. I’m so intrigued by this but it’s so hard to comprehend.. [deleted]. Do we see Dark Matter in play at all in this scenario? 24000 km/s seems like it should exceed the escape velocity of... anything. Think about the increased speed at which something spins (yes, the Coriolis effect) as it nears the drain.  Gulp. Scary.. S. That's a speeding ticket in any country. 68ì⁰. Would the moving star create a magnificent contrail for anything close enough to observe it with an image?. I am speed. If sound could travel in a vaccum, you could, from earth, hear a faint *"I'm fast as fuck booi"*. I know nothing about physics but very interested to learn that Very Large Telescope (VLT) is a specific term used to classify a telescope. Wild!. Pretty sure Matthew McConaughey discovered it already.. Why does Metric always seem to stop at Kilo? Shouldn't it be 24 Mm/s?. I wonder how many ancient civilizations we've lost to black holes.. Pshh, that’s like my normal jogging speed.. The black holes parents aren't home.. Can they call it Senna?. tf am i looking at. with it ‘circling’ the black hole in a highly elliptical orbit, would the speed vary much at different points as it orbits? is this the max speed or just the observed speed? or is 8% of the speed of light so fast that it does vary speed but it’s almost negligible?


thanks for posting that info! I hope you and everyone here has a great rest of the week.. Is it possible we are actually seeing the image of a star traveling at 8% the speed of light? Similar to how you can move the projected dot of a laser pointer "faster than the speed of light"?

What if the black hole in the center of Sag A has some gravitational lensing that is causing an image of a star behind it to appear to move that fast?. There is a telescope circling Sagittarius A*?. I found that very useful actually Thanks!. What would it be total on that star? Including the black hole and stars gravity. [deleted]. Very large black holes have a far more gradual gravitational gradient (new band name) which requires you to get a lot closer to the event horizon to experience a gravity difference strong enough to shread an object/body. ...and it's star. Like an actual STAR.. What do we travel at?. I think im less impressed by this than others because I'm an idiot.  At least to those who know what they're thinking about.  I gyess I've always just imagined that given the size of everything theres gotta be lots of big stuff go fast and small stuff go slow all around us all every always. C is the simulation step size whether you take that phrase literally or not. It's pretty neat we have a manmade analogue.. Imagine being on a planet that’s orbiting a star that is itself orbiting the center of the galaxy at 8% of the speed of light because of how close and elliptical it is. /r/boneappletea.             🌞  💨. True. Although according to my calculations 8% of the speed of light is 24 million m/s, so it may be a little difficult to visually perceive it. Fastinating. You'll be next to a supermassive black hole, might as well use *that* for gravitational slingshot :). At 5 g's (roughly the max acceleration for humans to survive) constantly accelerating would take about five and a half days  to get to 8% the speed of light.  But that would make it difficult to move around, sleep, or eat.  At 1.5 g's, which would be much more manageable, it would take roughly 18.5 days to get up to speed.  

Note that I haven't accounted at all for time dilation, which would have a small <1% effect.. Not really. If anything, it'd be way harder because the gravitational field would pass by you quicker. It's not like a vacuum where it just sucks you up once you get close and pulls you harder as it moves.. It's too fast. It will hardly change your course during the brief fly-by. The ideal speed would be of the same order of magnitude as the star's escape velocity, something like a few hundred kilometers per second.. High mass is what you're looking for when doing a gravity assist, not speed.. Slower, from our perspective.. Slower, but it's still way below 1%.. star go brrrr. The graph is showing what we see projected in the sky, not a 3D view. The BH will be at the correct position if you plotted this in 3D.. [Plot](https://scienceblogs.com/files/startswithabang/files/2012/07/2011orbits_animfull.gif) of 16 years of observation.. The star will not get pulled into the black hole. Although it is orbiting fairly close to the black hole, It is still orbiting way outside the immediate sphere of influence of the BH where the star would be shredded (tidal disruption event).  


The calculations for tidal disruption can be found [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roche_limit), for which, you need to know the orbital parameters and masses of the two objects. We have measured the mass of the BH quite accurately to be about 4.3 million solar masses.. As far as Newtonian gravity goes, it wont, since orbits are stable. But probably relativistic effects matter here, causing the orbit to decay.. Nope. There are no velocities given, or even direction of orbit.. That's the speed the Earth rotates on it's axis.  Earth rotates around the sun at 30km/s and around the milky way at 220km/s. That star is still going 1000 times faster than our sun. Yeah--more-or-less does half of Saturn's orbit in 32 hours.. This plot is showing the orbits of the stars around the supermassive black hole (SMBH) as seen in the sky. R.A. and DEC are the celestial coordinate system. The X and Y axes are measured relative to the SMBH which is at the origin (0, 0). The units are in milliarcsecond which is 1 degree on sky divided by (60 x 60 x 1000).. It's a very young star, only few million years old, and it's unlikely that any planets have formed around it.. At its closest point, if my is understanding is correct, the star and black hole will get roughly as close to each other as the Sun and Neptune are. You could probably see the accretion disk of the black hole without a telescope... (assuming there is one). Only if it is very, very close. [Calculation here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/i8d7n2/astronomers_have_discovered_a_star_traveling_at_8/g1a5qup/). The plot is a 2D projection of the orbits as seen in the sky, not a full 3D view.. Stuff farther away has — hence spiral galaxies having a disk. I think close to the SMBH things can stay a bit more chaotic though, as I’m sure some are stuff that’s migrated in after interactions in the bulge. For comparison, the Sun actually has some close orbiting comets that probably originated farther away (such as the Oort Cloud or Kuiper Belt), but were knocked in by gravitational interactions, and those can be at any angle.. The black hole didn't form like a star, and the stars most likely formed elsewhere as well.. Why would it?. The huge mass holds it together and the speed alone doesn't do anything. A star will break apart when it gets within the [Roche radius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roche_limit) of the black hole.. Speed is relative. The star's speed is zero from its own frame, and it doesn't care what its speed is in some other arbitrary frame. From its perspective, it is Sag A* that is moving fast.

The mass of a black hole can destroy a star through tidal forces, but it has to get very close.. The vacuum of space I think. I'm trying to calculate that -- basic v\^2/r would give about 300 Newtons, if I've got my units right.. 8% of the whole lot.  So, yeah.. Something that falls in approaches the speed of light as it approaches the event horizon.. The black hole. But within the given precision: Basically everything else in the galaxy.. > how ist the BH strong enough (in terms of gravitational force) to let the whole galaxy spin around it?

It is not. Over 99.999% of the mass comes from dark matter, stars, gas and other stuff - there happens to be a black hole in the center but it doesn't contribute much to the overall mass.

Tearing something apart needs tidal forces - gravity being stronger on one side of the star than on the other. Tidal forces drop very quickly with distance.. I’m by no means an astrophysics expert but I’d imagine this star is in a very slowly decaying orbit where it’s velocity is near its “terminal” exit velocity, similar to a space station orbiting earth, just on a MUCH larger scale in mass and speed. Even clapping your hands will do that, but we kinda need really massive objects to collide to be able to measure it.. It will emit a tiny bit of gravitational waves, but with a period of 12 years. LIGO looks at periods in the millisecond range, and even the largest proposed detectors can only look at periods of the order of minutes to maybe hours. Observations of pulsars might give access to even longer periods, but they try to find orbiting supermassive black holes - I would be surprised if a single star produces a relevant signal.. If it's spinning fast it could oblate. Without an atmosphere I'm not sure there's anything to deform the star strictly from its speed.. ~250 billion km distance, ~180 km/s or ~0.06% the speed of light. That would depend on where the star is located in the galaxy, but still a lot less than 1% on average.. > does that mean we are traveling at 8% the speed of light from that stars perspective?

When the star is at the closest point of its orbit, yes.

> And if so, are we traveling the speed of light if viewed from light?

There is no "viewed from light".

> Is there some center point we use as a reference for speed?

Within the galaxy, typically the center of the galaxy. Within the Solar System, typically the Sun. In Earth orbit, Earth. And so on.. A perfect circle is a special case of an ellipse. Unless there is something that makes them circular they are some random ellipse.. The black hole, but the 8% are the same for nearly everything in our galaxy at that speed.. Point a telescope at it. Repeat for many years and see if some of the dots are moving in an ellipse.

A fancier version of watching the night sky with the naked eye and detecting planets by the way they change their position relative to other stars.. Twice the mass ([measured](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.04764.pdf)), probably something like 3 times the volume (very rough estimate from me).. That would be correct, but it's a bit obscure for most people. And in science you'd generally just use standard form, as in 24x10^6 m/s, or in engineering you might use the most convenient units in a way that cancel out. For example when looking at stress you'll often use Megapascals even if you have more than 1000, or less than 1 since it's convenient, as it is equivalent to N/mm^2, which lets you use mm rather than meters which gives you nicer numbers.. mm ist used for milli as in 1/100 I think. And that is to my knowledge only the case with meters. There are kilograms, tons, kilo tons, mega tons aso. And the are also many liters.. 24000 km/s is the speed at the closest approach (pericenter passage). The speed will be lower for the rest of the orbit.. Yes its faster when it's closest to the BH.

That's true for every orbiting body in the Universe including the Earth-Sun system etc...

Think about comets for example. They spend most of the orbit far outside of the inner Solar System. 

>Kepler's 2nd law of planetary motion: A line joining a planet and the Sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.

 [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kepler%27s\_laws\_of\_planetary\_motion#Second\_law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kepler%27s_laws_of_planetary_motion#Second_law) 

Check out the animation they have for a visual representation.. According to Newtonian orbit mechanics (I'm guessing that you would have to take relativistic effects into account here, but I don't know them off the top of my head) and the numbers from the paper, the orbital speed at apoapsis of the star is ~181 km/s, or 0.06% the speed of light. 

That number is actually slower than the orbital speed of the Sun around the Galaxy.

Edit: units. Gravitational lending is pretty well understood, and the star isn’t close to the black hole at all times.. We see the star directly, not some beam of light reflected by something.

Gravitational lensing is well understood, easy to detect, and taken into account where needed.

There is an apparent superluminal motion if things move towards us quickly, but that's not applicable here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superluminal_motion. You can't move the projected dot of a laser pointer faster than the speed of light.. > Sagittarius A*?

Sure, every telescope on Earth is circling Sagittarius A* ;). I wish!. The star's contribution will be something like a minute, but the gravitational field of the black hole does contribute. It should increase the time but things get a bit more complicated there.. An earth year is 4 hours longer at .08 c. I think it's 4 hours lost per year (for those travelling at that portion of c). I think they mean that the difference in time here in one year and for something moving at 0.08c is four years. Idk if it’s a year plus four years or minus four years, or neither.. Plus, the gravity holding the star itself together is immense.... Ah, thanks. I actually knew about the inverse relationship between the mass and the gravitational gradient of a black hole, I just failed to connect the dots.. One of my favourite local bands from years ago was called gravity wave. Ahead of their time... 

Though, the discovery of said waves means they have become harder to find on YouTube.. I'm late to the party here but would there be any sort of deformation to the shape of the star or would it still remain relatively spherical?. There's also the part where star is basically a giant ball of hot gas and is therefore elastic.. Sooo, are you telling me we could slingshot ourselves to near the speed of light using black holes?. But what about shredding some sick riffs?. This is the amazing part to me. The momentum and kinetic energy must be incredible. I know all things are relative (harhar) especially on a cosmic scale, but damn. That's (9.6\*10\^30 kg m/s), or the momentum of a trillion trillion trillion (1.5\*10\^36 ) T-Rex's moving at their top speed, while chasing Jeff Goldblum. That's a lot of rawr!. One TWICE as massive as our Sun.  Which is already in the top 25% or so of all stars.. Earth is 30 km/sec, sun is 200 km/sec. I imagine wouldn't look any different to what we see w.r.t our sun, both the planet and the sun would be in a relative harmony as earth and sun are. It's only outside viewer's perspective out side the influence of the gravity of the star and the black hole which would give you the experience of the majestic speed.. I imagine the gravity changes between apogee and perigee would mean that maintaining a stable orbit would be nearly impossible and any nascent planet would either fly off into space or crash into the star or the black hole relatively quickly.  

Three body problem is hard.. *sight. Depends on your distance. From 1 AU distance (Sun/Earth separation) the closest approach takes of the order of an hour and you'll see it slowly moving through the sky for hours.. Nah dude my kids would grow old if I did that. Those limits on acceleration matter for, say, an engine powering the ship. But during a gravitational slingshot around a fast-moving star, the spaceship would be in free-fall continuously (i.e. on a geodesic) and the passengers would feel weightless despite rapidly accelerating. 

A slingshot can in general accelerate something to around the speed of whatever you are slingshotting around, to a factor of 2 or so. Exactly what happens depends on the speed and angle of encounter.. Actually, isn't time dilation relative to gravity? Your comment makes me curious about time dilation effect on the fast moving star as a function of the eliptical orbit.... If the foci of multiple ellipses coincide in space, they should still coincide in any 2D projection.. If the star loses mass thru natural radiation, or siphoning, will that matter?. Only if there is a significant amount of energy and angular momentum lost by gravitational waves, but I don't think that's the case here.. Oohh I stand corrected but yes earth is losing that race. Although velocity is relative so that doesn’t mean much in itself.. Wow. That’s perfect. Thank you!. [deleted]. Yes, i see. But in Newtonian physics, all bodies that orbit the smbh should have the smbh in one of their two focal points of their orbit ellipse. 
If you project the 3d ellipse, this should still be the case.

But in the image, it doesn't appear like the orbits are actually stacked such that the focus points coincide.

So is this some GTR effect or just the margin of error on the orbits?. [deleted]. Thank you!. Okay, but how does the BH get enough force to let the galaxy spin around it, yet the star that near isn't torn apart.

I don't get how the force of the black hole is present in the most outer layer of the galaxy but that star semms to be unaffected by the massive force that should be (in my understanding) in that range of the BH. Thanks for the reply. That helps. The question about light; if we are traveling at a relative speed to anything, the star as the example, is the star moving or are we? And when I said viewed from light, what I meant was, are we traveling the speed of light towards a light particle and vice versa as it applies to that example of the star and ourselves. If we’re picking an arbitrary spot for a measure of speed, how do we know actual velocity if it is relative to anything we arbitrarily pick. Maybe I’m just not meant it understand this but I appreciate your help.. But how do they know what they’re looking at is a star or a planet? How can they possibly see any amount of detail to allow them to come to that conclusion? It’s so mind boggling to me. Well, they use milliparsec for distances in the paper.... The prefix milli (m) is 10^-3 or 1/1000; mega (M) is 10^6 . So 24Mm/s is 24 million metres per second, or 24,000 km/s. 

u/blausomer is correct. We use km/s because it's more intuitive; i.e. we're more familiar with a kilometre than a million metres.. Wow so much kinetic energy. that is a lot of acceleration. I think you can. Not with that attitude.. Please search for "superluminal speed" on the googs.. Einstein on a train: “Excuse me, when will the next station stop?”. That’s like experiencing an extra 30000 years since the dinosaurs died out. They said 4 hours per year. The difference in time accumulated in 1 year is 4 hours.. So you discovered gravity wave before scientists? 

"I liked their music when they were just a predicted consequences of GR!". I'm no expert in the field, but I feel like that would depend a lot on the rotation of the star. Overall though it would still be mostly spherical, as stars still have significant gravity.. that would depend on how fast the black hole is moving. Gravity is simply how we transfer velocity from the object we're slingshotting off of into our ship, effectively stealing some of its forward velocity. Your ability to slingshot isn't contingent on how much gravity that object has, though it does effect the range you can do it at, or rather the range you may want to do it at.. T-Rexs chasing Jeff Goldblum at top speed is the only unit I will use for momentum from now on, thank you for this.. Who tf is Jeff Golden?. Uhhh top 25%? Might wanna recheck that dude.. I wonder if the redshift/blueshift and space distortion of stars in the sky would be noticeable with the naked eye at such a high speed. That'd be cool to see!. Would the constellations of such a planet shift significantly during its sun’s orbital period?. Half the stars in the sky would be blue shifted (approaching stars) the other half red shifted (receding stars). It would be totally alien. Imagine being an astronomer trying to make sense of that shit.. You mean tidal forces? I don't imagine the tidal forces due to the black hole would be significant even at the periapsis, but I am not basing that on any data.. Well, the location would be pretty great to see, too, but... yeah.. Oh that’s makes sense. Didn’t think about how far you could be and still see it. So if you’re sufficiently far away you can still see it whilst it is traveling that fast.

Thanks for the info.. If they get too close, they might not!.  But just think, once you’re inside the black hole, you can peek on your kids from behind bookcases and creep them out by moving books around when they’re not looking.. Bring your kids with you :) then when you get back to earth and you’re wayyy younger than you should be you can claim you’re family is immortal. TIL, space is so fucking cool.. Time dilation is affected by gravity and speed.  Moving at ~10% of the speed of light would add ~1% of time to each second you experience, give or take. For the gravitational time dilation, the calculation can be found here: https://www.engineersedge.com/calculators/gravitational_time_dilation_15003.htm. I'm guessing here but if it lost enough mass independently it could escape its orbit. I mention guessing because orbit mechanics are probably like 4d chess.. [deleted]. [deleted]. > If you project the 3d ellipse, this should still be the case.

Why?

The ellipse doesn't have to be symmetric with respect to the z axis.

Consider an extreme example of a very eccentric orbit where the semimajor axis is nearly pointing towards us. The star will be close to the geometric center of the ellipse, not at one of the (apparent) focal points.. That isn’t a thing that happens, that’s not how potential kinetic energy works in relation to gravity.. All the material in the star is moving at the same velocity (roughly).. You move at 99.999% the speed of light, as seen by cosmic rays. Do you break apart from that speed?

Only relative speeds matter. The star has a speed of zero relative to itself.. > is the star moving or are we?

That depends entirely on your perspective. But the motion of the star changes quickly and with an overall period of 12 years. It's usually advisable to use an inertial reference, and one where you don't have everything flying away quickly. In that case: The star moves.

There is no reference frame of the light - there can't be, because light (in vacuum) moves at the speed of light in all reference frames.

"Actual velocity" (or absolute velocity) isn't a thing, only relative velocities are meaningful. But sometimes there is an obvious reference frame to use, like the surface of Earth for the speed of a car, or the black hole for the speed of the star orbiting it.. Planets would be way too dim to see them over that distance. They also don't have the right "color distribution" (spectrum) to look like a star.

The star appears as a point-like object in telescopes, we don't see structures on it.. Okay, thanks for clarification! Didn't mean to spread false information.. Much speed, very mass.. It's free real estate. I'm willing to be proven wrong but I was under the assumption that, say, flicking a laser pointer across the moon doesn't actually make the image move faster than light because it still takes a certain amount of time for light to reach the new spot, and that time is limited by the speed of light.. What can I say? When you're right, you're right. I have. Do you have anything in particular you'd like me to look at?. Dude, I know right? After LIGO dropped and they got all that praise, the quality just dropped off. It's like, they just lost their magic.... Everything was so formulaic, predictable and safe. Sure... It's nice to know what's coming, but a little weird helps the imagination. 

I was pretty big into The String Theories too, but they kinda fizzled out after they told all the promoters there was no way anyone could provide enough power for their concerts... Who's interested in listening to such divas?. [Gravity waves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravity_wave) are the waves at fluid interfaces, like ocean waves, typically driven by static gravitation.  [Gravitational waves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_wave) are the ones recorded by LIGO, from changes in the gravitational field.  But even gravitational waves have been known by scientists for quite a while.  Proposed in 1905, predicted in 1916, indirect evidence starting in 1974 ([binary pulsar orbital decay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hulse%E2%80%93Taylor_binary)).  LIGO's big step forward was direct observation of gravitational waves (2016).  I worked for LIGO briefly back in 1991, before the main funding, and back when there were amazing gaps between the sensitivity achieved and the theoretical wave amplitudes (I vaguely recall 9 orders of magnitude).  It's amazing what they were able to do over the years.  Of course, going from one 40m lab to multiple evacuated 4km-per-side L interferometers and much better lasers was part of that, but only part.. Super interesting! So in case of a smaller black hole being “absorbed” by a bigger one, we could slingshot between them and be shot out the fucking universe? Like I mean, they would be orbiting at extreme speeds right?. Whoever he is, he’s in a lot of trouble.. Edited, whoops!. He’s the frontman man for Gravity Wave, duh. Didn’t you read the above intergalactic band name thread? He pretty much IS Gravity Wave.. "Science, umm, does stuff" - Jeff Golden. It's easily top 25%. That's being overly cautious. The mass of stars across the universe is so heavily weighted towards the low end that the Sun is in the top 10-12% of main sequence stars. And of all stars, about 90% are on the main sequence. Assuming that all stars not on the main sequence are more massive than the sun (a ridiculously overconservative estimate), pushes the position of the sun down about 10 percentage points, meaning... The sun is absolutely in the top 25% of mass for stars and is very probably much, much higher than that. 



Ref: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stellar_classification

Ref: https://www.space.com/22437-main-sequence-stars.html. At these velocities, there is a distinguishable change! 8% light speed corresponds to an 8.3% change in wavelength via redshift. So, a star that appears blue with a wavelength of 450 nm at zero relative velocity will appear to have a wavelength of 488 nm when the relative velocity is parallel to the distance between the two stars. This would give it a light blue/green colour!. Sci-fi idea: a population whose passage of time is rythmed by the colour shift of the entire star sky when their own sun passes close to the black hole.. I am lazy so I used some online calculators instead of working it out for my self. But, yes, you would notice. 

You can use this calculator to find the red shift for moving at 8% the speed of light:

 [http://www.calctool.org/CALC/phys/relativity/redshift](http://www.calctool.org/CALC/phys/relativity/redshift) 

I found that z=0.0834727

Then, I used this calculator:

 [https://www.omnicalculator.com/physics/redshift](https://www.omnicalculator.com/physics/redshift) 

To find that green light (530 nm) with the above red shift (z) would look like 574.2 nm, which is very yellow. And yellow light (574 nm) would look very red (621 nm). 

You can see the color difference using this wavelength to color widget:

 [https://www.wolframalpha.com/widgets/view.jsp?id=5072e9b72faacd73c9a4e4cb36ad08d](https://www.wolframalpha.com/widgets/view.jsp?id=5072e9b72faacd73c9a4e4cb36ad08d). Anything outside the influence of the star and the black holes gravity will be intact so doubt that. 
Planet is moving the sun is moving black hole and the further stars outside the gravity influence should be relatively static-ish if that can be used as a term on cosmic scale. Nothing is static in the ever expanding universe.. The night sky of this planet wouldn't have constellations as we know them. Instead the entire sky would be packed full of very bright stars. A few of the closest ones would shift position noticeably within just a few years.. Maybe it would accelerate the understanding of physics a little bit as compared to have stars that don't light shift to the naked eye.. They are. The star can hold itself together but it won't have planets with nice temperatures. It's Hill sphere is just [10 million km](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=4.1+milliparsec+*+%281-0.985%29*%282%2F%283*4+million%29%29%5E%281%2F3%29) wide. Stable orbits need to be well inside that, maybe ~1/3 or 3 million km. It's possible to have planets that close (for a while at least) but that's a hellish environment.. If you are much closer you are baked from the radiation anyway. This star is much brighter than the Sun, so 1 AU distance is already dangerous.. Well, yeah. Who was it that said the only thing that gave him a headache was the three-body-problem?. How so? The other commenter seemed to imply that this higher speed should somehow be relevant to some physical phenomenons in itself.. Ah yes, i guess the projection of the focal point is not in general a focal point of the projected ellipse.

Thanks. Ok thank you then. If it orbits a Black hole too close then it might actually brake apart though. Ok thanks for explanation I Got it. very speed, much mass. [deleted]. Great, now search for the conventions around the use of quotation marks (these: "). There can be found in my original reply around the phrase "faster than the speed of light".. I'm no astrophysicist but I feel like if two black holes were rapidly orbiting and you tried to approach, the gravity waves would fuck on you. You'd have to find someone that knew the math instead of just broad theory though, I'm only an enthusiast :). Must go faster. Frontman man.... Boys... we have found the Black Hole/Green Sun. How many hydrogen bombs does each speck of space dust hitting the planet at those speeds correspond to?. That's awesome! With length contraction distorting the image too, and possibly distortion from the supermassive black hole when it's close, that would be quite an interesting night sky.. Half would be blue shifted, the other half red shifted. It would be very strange. Nasty.... I was curious because it sounded familiar but I can't find the reference.. [deleted]. Yes, due to tidal forces. Not sure if it’s the case here.. Mass much, speed vary... Ahh. That does make sense. Thanks!. Remember in Stargate: Atlantis, when they built the Gate Bridge (series of stargates) between Pegasus and the Milky Way? And there was a waystation midway, where you could get out and have a look around. From there, you could see the Milky Way in its entirety. You could see the swirl and the bright centre, and you could try to imagine where the Earth and our sun were in all of it. I remember pausing that shot and staring at it for ages. The whole thing filled you with a sense of just how awesomely far away from everything you were, in the void between galaxies. It was lonely and beautiful and haunting and awesome.

It would also be a great place to try that laser pointer experiment (great explanation, by the way). Once you can outrun one you can outrun them all. Until their mutual gravitational acceleration becomes relevant.. At last, we can got tiger, and escape 2020.. 1 grain of sand would carry the kinetic energy of 0.3 kilotons of tnt, equivalent to the [Tianjin explosion in 2015](https://youtube.com/watch?v=iv5g2MhPT5I).  
Something more like marble-size would be 300 kt, about 20x the size of the Hiroshima bomb. You would only need to scale up to soccer ball size to reach Tsar Bomb territory. I have no idea, so let's make some maths. 

Let's assume that the grain dust moves at 10% of the speed of light with respect to the planet. If I remember my bachelor courses correctly (<--- most questionable assumption of the day), its total energy in the planet frame of reference would be 

    E = γ m c^2

and its kinetic energy is `Ec = (γ-1) m c^2`

With a speed `v = 0.1 c`, the gamma factor is: `γ = 1/SQRT(1 - (0.1c/c)^2) = 1.005`

What's the mass of a typical grain dust? I have no clue but let's go with 1 gram. 

The kinetic energy is therefore `Ec = 4.57 * 10^11 J`  (which is only ~10% higher than if I had used classical mechanics ... why do I bother?)

Using [my favourite Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orders_of_magnitude_(energy\)), we find out that this corresponds to 100 tons of TNT equivalent. The Tsar Bomba was at 10^17 J, a whole 6 orders of magnitude higher. 

... So assuming a 1g grain dust strikes the planet at 10% of the speed of light, it probably wouldn't do much. A nice firework in upper atmosphere certainly.

It could do a lot of damage if instead of one single grain, we had millions. But as the other Redditor said, it's already quite unlikely that surrounding space grains do not fly at the same speed as the planet.. Wouldn’t dust encountered by a planet orbiting a star orbiting the BH be orbiting the same star?  Would their relative velocities be so different?  I guess interstellar dust hitting the stellar bow shock could be moving at a good pace.  You’d think that the stellar/interstellar boundary would get pretty compressed on the windward side (is that a thing?) and be ignoring some ferocious plasma.  Actually, wouldn’t that act as a bit of an engine with all those interactions creating a substantial drag effect?   I guess, hows this star alive is the question.  Wow.. Red shift is much more noticeable than length contraction. At 8% the speed of light you get the noticeable shifts I gave above. But the length contraction at that speed is only about 0.3% (1 meter looks like 0.9968 meters). The gravitational lensing from the black hole would be more noticeable than this. 

That all said, I am not sure any of this would result in a spectacular night sky. The red shifts of different starts across the night sky might be noticeable, but by no means impressive (would you notice the difference between a yellow-ish point in the sky and a reddish point in the sky?). And those intense red shifts are only for a small amount of the 12 year orbit.. True, but relativistic effects due to velocity are relative to the observer. If we are taking about whether or not the star will be torn apart or the orbit will decay, for instance, other factors are at play. My comment was just meant to remind of that.. Linear momentum: “I’ve been the same this whole time, bro”. Actually, getting up to 8% of c, the mass increases by more than 3%, too.. [deleted]. Broadly speaking, we do not generally conceptualize the mass as changing. When people do talk about this, they should use the expression "relativistic mass", but again we have generally moved away from such an interpretation, because it's oversimplifying and confusing a phenomenon for the sake of parallels with classical physics.  Don't hide the Lorentz Factor in the mass, and if you must, at least call it "Relativistic Mass". But also don't.. I have never achieved to understand this.Would this mass change anything but inertia? When I studied Special Relativity I always thought that we could reabsorb the gamma factor in other quantity, so the idea that the mass changes is one interpretation (the other being that what changes is the definition of the other quantity like momentum)

 Does the object changes it's gravitational field? My thought process: mass is a Lorentz invariant (as is the square of the 4momentum) thus is frame independent. There shouldn't be any experiment where we could measure that change.. Not in the way "mass" is used in physics. The concept of a velocity-dependent relativistic mass has been outdated for decades, it only survives in bad popular science descriptions.

Relativistic mass is simply the total energy with a prefactor, and we already have a name for that - energy. No need to invent another name that just leads to misconceptions.. Thank you!

Well, it was one or two shots in five seasons, and they didn’t make much of it themselves - it was more my imagination that made me want to pause it and look. But Stargate and Stargate: Atlantis are both great series, so I’d always recommend watching them. 👍. Yes! I was about to write a message like this. This can’t be emphasized enough...people still use the “relativistic mass” a lot in popular science and more often than not just calling it “mass”.... If its gravitational mass increases, then its Schwarzschild radius increases to external observers.  A very massive neutron star getting very close to a black hole could then become, effectively, a black hole itself from the view of such an external observer.

So then that creates a lot of questions:
- Can light escape?  In the neutron star’s reference frame it should escape, but to the external observer it should have an event horizon.
- Does the observer see a black hole turn back into a stable neutron star as it moves away from apoapsis?
- Does this break physics?

Of course the answer to the last question is “no”, but I’m curious what assumptions or understanding I’m getting wrong.  Or am I?. And an answer:

https://wtamu.edu/~cbaird/sq/mobile/2013/06/18/can-you-go-fast-enough-to-get-enough-mass-to-become-a-black-hole/. Yuhuuu! Thanks!! Bose letter to Einstein which accompanied his paper describing the first developments towards Bose-Einstein statistics. nan. The letter reads:


“Respected Sir,
I have ventured to send you the accompanying article for your perusal and opinion. I am anxious to know what you think of it. You will see that I have tried to deduce the coefficient 8π ν2/c3 in Planck's Law independent of classical electrodynamics, only assuming that the ultimate elementary region in the phase-space has the content h^3. I do not know sufficient German to translate the paper. If you think the paper worth publication I shall be grateful if you arrange for its publication in Zeitschrift für Physik. Though a complete stranger to you, I do not feel any hesitation in making such a request. Because we are all your pupils though profiting only by your teachings through your writings. I do not know whether you still remember that somebody from Calcutta asked your permission to translate your papers on Relativity in English. You acceded to the request. The book has since been published. I was the one who translated your paper on Generalised Relativity.”. I assumed it would be in German? Anyone know why it’s in English?. The sacred texts. Was listening to a podcast just yesterday on Bose Einstein condensate. Great stuff!. Just saw on his Wikipedia page that bosons are named after him, that's pretty cool!. Wow. I got goosebumps reading this. I am from the city Bose lived.

S.Bose's contribution is not very well known here among people. 

People just know that he was a big scientist.  
Though its just proves that talent in this world so uniformly distributed and it just takes 

sheer talent and nothing else to take the human race ahead one step at a time. Is this letter physically on display? If so, where?. I am from Dhaka University, same as Sir Bose and I want to shout out that I'm proud to see this post just after a year of exile from reddit.. I'm an Indian and never knew Bose taught in Bangladesh. This is amazing! Enjoyed their [at the time] theoretical paper on Bose-Einstein Condensates!. One small thing can make the biggest difference.. Cool... If Einstein thought in general relativity math was hard..... That takes a lot of trust to just hand your unpublished work to another academic. Not to say that he would, but Einstein could just as easily have published the work as his own.. Are space and time physical properties , or concepts?. Einstein ripped him off just like every other person that collaborated with him or shared thoughts in letter. Bangal states gives many Physicits. Thought it said Epstein for a minute. Lol. Why didn't someone kill this dude at that time?. Now look, Einstein was funny as Super Dave, but I don't think...  


Oh.  


Albert Einstein.. Great headphones. Fascinating! Thank you for posting this. Was it a 50-50 collaboration or did Bose do most of the work?. Its so basic saying this, but real recognize real.. [deleted]. Apologies for the laymen question, does this Bose have any relation to the audio company, Bose?. I think that Bose didn’t speak German. That’s why Einstein translated Bose’s paper.. I mean Bose was Indian born in Calcutta.. Daniel and Jorge explain the universe by any chance? I listened to that episode yesterday, and got reminded of this picture I took long ago.. Yeah, now I just wanna know the podcast.... Can you throw me that podcast? I’ve been failing to grasp this state of matter.. Is this a limerick? I can put meter to it. I took this picture in 2017 and I believe I was at the Imperial College in London, but it could’ve been in Oxford as well.. By this point in his career Einstein was so stupidly famous, Bose and others were actually hoping to attach his name to their papers as a form of advertising. Proving they themselves contributed is trivial, so there is no real worry.. [deleted]. I am not completely sure, but my understanding is that Bose made a bigger contribution.. I would argue that Einstein‘s contribution is a little more than 50%. Bose showed that light quanta behave as described by the Bose-Einstein distribution. Einstein showed that all particles with integer spin, ie Bosons, behave like that, thus, putting out a more general law than Bose did. An he has the translation to do ;)

Thing that puzzles me though: if Boses’s German was good enough to translate Einstein’s work to English (and all who have read the original version will agree that Einstein’s writing wasn’t easy) how come that he couldn’t translate his work to German?

Anyhow, both are true heroes of science!. As far as I know, S. N. Bose was not related to Amar Bose. 

It is a fairly common Bengali last name. This [obituary](https://m.tribuneindia.com/2013/20130714/main4.htm) of Amar Bose refers to the many luminaries with that last name. Oh okay, thanks. Exactly!. Daniel and Jorge explain the universe. Remindme! 2 hours

Edit: :(. Sept 30, 2020 podcast from Daniel and Jorge Explain The Universe, titled “what is Bose Einstein Condensate?”. Hahahaha what’s with all these assholes downvoting us?. http://hermes.ffn.ub.es/luisnavarro/nuevo_maletin/Bose_1924.pdf

Apparently, Einstein found a way to derive Planck's law purely by using quantum mechanics, but only with a general, undetermined coefficient instead of the coefficient Bose is mentioning. So to really derive Plancks law, he had to resort to using Wien's law and therefore classical theory.

Bose found a way to determine the coefficient, and putting both ways together they were able to derive Plancks law purely by using quantum mechanics.

From the paper, it looks pretty 50/50 (but who cares about that, it's a beautiful derivation!). Thank you so much. Einstein had so many reservations about QM, despite his pioneering contributions.. I've often heard, and I've found it true in my personal experience, that it's easier to read a foreign language than to write it.  In the former, you can often get by with a partial knowledge of grammar and vocabulary to understand while using your advanced skills in the other language to precisely express your understanding.. [deleted]. It's much easier to understand a scientific text in a foreign language than to write a scientific text in a foreign language. Thank you so much for this!. Of course the German attempts to claim Einstein had the bigger contribution;). Would be a lot cooler if he was.. Actually, my bad. He did speak German. And also Bengali, Sanskrit, French and English (of course). So I’m actually not sure why the letter is in English.. To be honest, the podcast is a bit underwhelming. More like „Daniel describes the universe while Jorge makes unfunny remarks“. Cool! Thanks for the link and insight.. This is correct. It's easier for me to understand and derive meaning from more languages than I speak. It's a fairly common thing in India since we speak multiple languages there.. Yeah, example: me and Python!. A quick look through Wikipedia seems to suggest that the translation was done in English.. Obviously. Clearly, I’m not native English and have written a few publications in English nonetheless. Usually physics papers aren’t wonderfully written novels, though. Admittedly German is probably not the easiest language to write in. Oh that’s cool and more puzzling. I hoped a little that it was German so I could read it like that as practice.. >So I’m actually not sure why the letter is in English.

Its most probable that bose learnt phy in English(India) and he was way more comfortable with it than German.. Ah lame. Very interesting. Multi language speaker myself, I can easily translate TO English, but I cannot translate technical documents FROM English. and arithmetic, :( I can only do it in Spanish! I was in Spanish school in the early years, hence, learned it in Spanish. Cannot multiply in any other language!. The letter indicates Bose did not know enough German to translate the paper. Built a trebuchet. Finally got to fire a flaming pumpkin.. nan. I'm just impressed that you were responsible enough to inform the fire department.. Smashing!. I have to ask, did you almost start a massive fire?. r/trebuchetmemes. Two firemen in full gear, for a pumpkin?. Honestly a trebuchet is just an industrial yeeter. Thus pumpkin pie was born. That's uhh... a lot of super dry kindling you've got got there.... It’s like a bullet with butterfly wings.. You mention "fluids" in several of your replies. I presume you're referring to the flammable additive? What did you use?

 So for balance next time you should launch one that's been dipped in liquid nitrogen to see it shatter.. I’m not an expert but it didn’t go very far...?. No ordinary catapult can do that!. Would have been even cooler at night. Let's go Peay!. [deleted]. Nice! Brings me back to the Pumpkin Chunkin.. 🎼 The world is a vampire 🎶. Trebuchet is superior.. [deleted]. This sub has really variable quality.. Love this. How far did it make it?. Cool, how far did it go?. Stand your ground. That is fucking sick and i applaud you for that. 1. Simply awesome! Great job!
2. I think I hear a drone, I wanna see that drone footage if you’ve got it pls.. I never thought I would see me school on here but that’s a first!. r/reallifedoodles please make something out of this.. I hear an fpv drone. That was successful af. Did you calculate the spot it would land? and if so, how accurate were you?. Just look how well that tiny Trebuchet tossed that thing.  No catapult that size could do it I tell ya.. Austin Peay represent. Okay but why. Ah yes, the superior siege weapon.. May I ask why?. The green goblin would be proud. Ichabod Crain called, he says that's not cool man.... You should combine what you're doing with the Jack-O-Lantern explosion physics teacher's methods.. That's lit!. You had a perfectly good brick building behind you, and you chose to shoot into the field?. Legendary. Much better than the trebuchet I built for my IB Extended Essay. Perfect for reclaiming **THE JERUSALEM**!!!. I see you turned the trebuchet down so it wouldn’t hit the houses. Trebuchet gang! Better that  catapults. Flaming Pumpkins was Newfoundland's third most successful bar band in the early 2000s.. 300m my ass. Belongs in r/trebuchetmemes. Time to slap some wheels on that bad boy! Potentially more than 10% greater energy transferal from dropping weight to forward movement of the projectile.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KpFTyE-wiNo. Omg FINALLY.. Hardly going to knock down a castle though is it. Hey! That's hometown!. Ah yes, the far superior siege implement.. Nice, looks similar to what I built back in high-school.  My problem was a balanced counterweight though, how did you go about creating a proper counterweight?. scientists be like. We are under a burn ban, so I coordinated with the fire marshal 😊.. Can confirm, I was one of the FFs present.. pumpkins?. https://cdn.costumewall.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/nigel-thornberry.jpg. Nope. I coordinated with the city fire marshal to have help with the event.. r/subsineverexpectedtoexist. Many more out of frame. We are under a burn ban and I wanted to be safe.. Unrivaled in its yeetability. Funny but trebuchets we created far before the industrial reveloution. Its a large mechanical yeeter.. This may be the best sub-thread that I have ever made. Agreed. That’s why I coordinated with the fire dept. All was under control.. I have made a decision not to share as this was an event to get children excited about science. I don’t want any copies done poorly.

Funny you mention LN2, I had intended to make that part of the demo, but ran out of time.

One of the demos I often do for the kiddoes includes dipping roses in liquid nitrogen and letting them smash them. They love it! Onions and peppers do great as well.. I was built to be safe and reliable as a science demo for kids. Not meant for any sort of competition. Those pumpkins heavy with “fluid” went about 175 feet. Most 10-12 pound pumkins or watermelons go ~225 feet.. Agreed, but the team of students needed to help dissemble this beast had finals in the morning. So grateful they were still willing to help. 2000 pounds of steel, sandbags, and support infrastructure.. So proud to see my school on Reddit.. Y. Because the mods don't know how to mod.. Flaming pumpkin with “fluid”, about 175 feet.. Only about 175 feet. It was heavy with “fluids”.. Thank you. I will share it with the folks that have asked for it when I get it tomorrow, or more likely next week.. Thank you. I will share it with the folks that have asked for it when I get it tomorrow, or more likely next week.. What year?!?. Yes please.. I tried to estimate the landing zone, but it is so late in the season that I didn’t have enough pumpkins to test with and ignite. Fell a little short of my intended distance.. Why not?. Why not?. We did this in our school too. It was some kind of cience competition to see who could design and build the best trebuchet. Alright so fire marshal hear me out. I know that the tiniest spark could start a cataclysmic fire, but this needs to happen. “Alright what”. We’re gonna yeet a flaming pumpkin with an actual trebuchet. “How many men do you need”. Thank you for your service.. Today is the greatest..... Smiling politely.. Basically came here to combine these comments lol. Good thinking! Nice trebuchet.. Lucky you aren't under a pumpkin ban too. It seems the firefighters just wanted the excuse to see you launch a pumpkin. A superior siege yeetuchet.. I mean it in the sense that it does it in a large amount. Missed that in the video sorry.

Well done for being so fire conscious :D.. *It. ~~So, ca. ~? m?~~

So, ca. 50-55m. Totes magotes understand. Thanks!. I’m actually a senior in the college of business! Spend most of my time in Kimbrough and The Foy. I would have loved to seen this on campus though! Lol. Also, it was my birthday and I wanted to do something fun and educational for my community. 😊. Because it was there. Almost verbatim.. > “How many men do you need”

Two, apparently. >“How many men do you need”

The answer was apparently 2.

2 dudes is all it takes? Damn. You are very welcome! It's a great gig!. Day I've ever known.... Hear me out

An AoE2 mod that makes trebuchets say "YEET". Laying in a hot bath, losing my shit at that. Not a negotiation, not even a conversation; simply a tacit agreement of things that simply must be done. Actual trebuchet; flaming pumpkin; epic yeet; no questions asked. 😂😂😂😂😂😂. I once tried to convince the Fire Marshall of a beach town to allow our family to shoot off 4th of July fireworks, as my younger brother had just returned from down range.

>”what, who am I talking to? What are you asking about, again? Don’t you understand permission and foregiveness? *click*”

We later shot off fireworks. The local 5-0 watched and radioed over to FD about a combat engineer captain who claimed his explosives knowledge made it OK to do fireworks over the water; 5-0 was E4 mafia reserve. There was a lot of back and forth, the specifics of the Captain’s knowledge while the fireworks were going off. Things got called to a halt when the FD asked “Were you aware this was unsanctioned?”
>”We ask foregiveness as we dont have permission.”

>”...fuckin Officers, always thinking they make the rules. Stop what you’re doing, immediately, and come hand over your shit yourself.”

Bro-ski turned in about $40 of mortars, while the fire chief says
>”I don’t care how they do it down range. But, I was combat service support. Hope you never have to go down range again. Stop shooting off fireworks in my town, this mistake won’t be made again.”
>”Roger that, Chief.”

Florida panhandle can be fun. I've heard that firemen love playing with fire when they aren't fighting it. This is just more evidence.. Can't live for tomorrow.... And what i choose is my choice.... Such a beautiful moment, I’d jump on the opportunity as well.. I grew up around firefighters (my granpa was one for 56 years). Most will use any excuse they can to start a fire just for a chance to put it out. It'd be scary if all the one's I've ever known weren't so safety-conscious and skilled.. [deleted]. Just posted above but yeah-my granpa was a fireman for almost 60 years and every firefighter i've ever met LOVED lighting fires just so they could put them out. It makes sense, though-it helps them get better at what they do.. Really if you're a fire marshal you don't take every opportunity to launch flaming gourds, can you really call yourself a patriot?. Heh. I see what you did there. Can we all take a moment to thank the content creators exposing a whole new generation to the beauty of math and science (Veritasium, VSauce, asapscience, 3Blue1Brown, Kurzgesagt). Honestly they’re contributing a lot to inspire the minds of the new innovators of the world.. Don't forget PBSspacetime.. Shout out to sixty symbols!. So true,

Also many shouts to 

SmarterEveryDay, 

Everything Brady Harren is doing, (Sixty symbols, Objectivity, ect.) 

Complexly studios (who do SciShow, Crash Course, ect.), 

and It's Okay To Be Smart

*I forgot Physics Girl  and MinutePhysics 

(which was a travesty in need of edits). PBS Spacetime provided an added level of depth to pretty much all "popular science" books and documentaries I've ever read or seen (EDIT: With the possible exception of Susskind's "Theoretical Minimum" Series) If you'd like to know more than what's in all the great books and general videos, but can't quite go off to study physics - PBS Spacetime is amazing. Fermilab (though most of the time not quite as deep) deserved a mention, too.

**Also, since nobody mentioned the channel yet: [Physics Videos by Eugene Khutoryansky](https://www.youtube.com/user/EugeneKhutoryansky) has very informative visualizations.** (I usually watch them at 1.25x or 1.5x - and try to ignore the animated, barely clothed women :D)

3 Blue 1 Brown was able to get me really interested in pure maths again - made me realize connections I hadn't noticed before, and is able to visualize the beauty and elegance of it all to a degree I didn't think possible. I'm always in awe of his explanations and animations.

EDIT: Since I was just thinking of Susskind - his Stanford Lectures available as video playlists on youtube are also pretty awesome (so are others, e.g. on Human Behavioral Biology by the great Robert Sapolsky). Scott Manley and Cody'sLab deserve a mention here. 
Scott Manley's videos inspired me so much that they even affacted my choice of major.. Add Numberphile.. [deleted]. I'm also a fan of Andrew Dotson, who gives insight into the life of a physics student while also having other general physics topics and the ever-loved meme reviews and comedy videos.. My favourite is Eddie Woo. He may just teach a small class in Australia but he teaches in a way that inspires me and helps me understand maths.. Mathologer and flammable maths are my great german boys. Also Practical Engineering, Real Engineering, Primer, Up and Atom

And on the applied side Tech Ingredients, NightHawkInLight. Codys lab is what got me into science on youtube. He's less scientific in his endeavors than most other channels mentioned, but is a great source on a lot of more practical applications and experiments.. Dont forget PBSspacetime and PBSInfiniteSeries. I would actually watch a YouTube awards ceremony for all of these channels. They are actually contributing to society as a whole, in contrast to the ding dongs YouTube tried to promote on their video awards b.s.. Yay! 🙋🏻‍♂️

These folks have enriched and sped up my learning so much. Thanks!. [deleted]. Minutephysics deserves a massive shoutout! Thanks Andrew!. Veritasium is the first of these which i came across when i was in 9th grade . cool stuff but went over the head .

 Then came asapscience . was my all time favourite but soon they became worse and i now hate them with the depth of my heart ( its just my personal opinion so dont hate on me plz ) . they are not my types i guess . 

fast forward to high school . i met PatrickJMT and Vsauce . absolutely loved both of them . patrick helped so much with the crucial little things i might have normally glided over . Michael stevens is the coolest man ever imo . i even like his friends from vsauce2 and vsauce3 . 

now in college , with physics major . reason i took physics major , although my steep inclination in favour of mathematics was 3b1b . i have never found such greatness in any educational video i have ever seen . i wish grant taught in every school . 
in one video , he mentions that his goal is to make you understand the the topic so well ( i think it was from his essence of calculus's 1st ep ) that we feel that we could have invented it on our own . this point is what his videos are actually so great . difficult topics are reduced by steps of logic and they feel just natural . pure bliss . 

dont forget flammablemaths , bprp , khan academy , and i would even mention guys on brilliant .


edit : forgot eddie woo , dr. peyam , legendary walter lewin ( he is really great and the one who changed how i studied ) ,  mitocw , mathologer ( actually does maths and is not fake like asapscience ) , michel van biezen , mind your decisions , minute physics , numberphile (though their -1/12 video will always scare me , watch mathologer's btw ) , pbs infinite series (does actual physics and not fake sci-guy ) , eugene khutoryansky ( this man and his animations are reason i understand linear algebra , interference/diffraction , fourier series and basic idea ) , standupmaths .. Don’t forget Physics Girl!

I show her stuff in class all the time.. Shoutout to *Fresh Toadwalker*. Numberphile too. What? No SmarterEveryDay?. I thought I was smart before I started watching these channels. Especially PBS Spacetime, VSauce, Joe Scott and Anton Petrov. 

Now I know I know nothing, and have grown a scientific and existential curiosity as a result, and feel like I have a whole new view of the world. And I love it!. Numberphile. I actually have mixed feelings about them. Like they did a great job teaching concepts but they accidentally tricked me into thinking I actually understood physics. After I point it was just gratuitous to watch them and I thought learning physics was gonna be easy peasy. I wasted a bunch of time watching popular science videos without learning the math, sans 3blue1brown, and now that I'm actually making a conscious effort to learn calculus and classical mechanics I realize how much time I wasted hearing analogies about quantum mechanics and not actually knowing any physics. It kinda pisses me off actually.. The internet's children are coming. On a slightly deviating path, the post apocalyptic inventor, learn engineering, AvE, abom79, agent jayZ, and made in poland got me interested in the sciences and their applications. I wouldnt be into engineering without them.. Big fan of Numberphile too. Before 3B1B I actually despised Mathematics but seeing his videos made me realize that there is much more to Mathematics than a mere tool for engineers and scientists.. Ben Krasnow - [Applied Science](https://www.youtube.com/user/bkraz333). Thank the Greenes.
Thank YouTube for quality contents..
And thank my lazy brain for procrastinating.... Numberphile is also a great mathematics channel, it can be a bit dry, though. I want to plug [Two Minute Papers](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbfYPyITQ-7l4upoX8nvctg), where in each episode a recent and ground-breaking paper is broken down and explained in a few minutes. Applied Science
AvE
EEVblog
Cody's Lab
The Thought Emporium
NurdRage
Bionerd23

All wonderful channels with often great presenters of scientific knowledge.. Mark Rober, even though he doesn’t upload nearly as often, is an incredible channel as well.. Shout out to [**u/SimonOxfPhys**](https://www.reddit.com/user/SimonOxfPhys) for making great climate-change related stuff. Check out his science video playlist here: [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLiZiIJMDh4ykyK7zLPBwfm0S-tl-MOm0P](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLiZiIJMDh4ykyK7zLPBwfm0S-tl-MOm0P). dont forget about its okay to be smart. Adding NOVA to this, which got me and I know many others into science from a very young age.. There's an spanish youtuber called QuantumFracture that you should all go and check out. Great content.. I've not watched VSauce in a while but wasn't that show more philosophy than physics and other science?!. Shows like this and PBS spacetime  have inspired me to get back into studying. Starting with mathmatics. Had I been taught this sort of relevance I'd have paid more attention in school (late 20s now).. Bruh Kerzgesagt is my shit! I like asapscience and infographics too but I havent seen any channel as good as Kurzgesagt.

Also: if you are intrested in animals and species look up "TierZoo" he makes it really entertaining to watch and learn. Exerb1a is also an excellent source.. Real engineering!. [deleted]. For some entertaining electrical engineering try electroboom.. Yeah, I love the smart part of YouTube. It makes me feel good that such people exist.. ASAP Science is a knock-off of Minute Physics.. I credited bill Nye and Michael in my graduation comment. The internet is already revolutionizing the way we educate ourselves and our children. All of the accounts you listed, including many more, are contributing to a large pool of information that is easy to understand, even for children, and opening up peoples minds to other ideas as well. They educate in a simple manner that is still entertaining. 

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLENZ52EKaAwVNtAwDoqOuukio-ptZSAi

Just a compilation of interesting and educational videos i've made into a playlist.. I used to like Kurzgestat, but they were getting really political, like in your face level of annoying.. yes.. Joe Scott deserves a shout out here as well. Answers with Joe is a great high-level view show as well. He doesn't get into the science the way veritasium and the others do but it's a great way to get people interested and put them on the path of learning more.. Sixty symbols!. These chanales are the only reason I still love science after 8 years of crappy science teachers.. Tbh it was channels like those that encouraged me to major in physics, along with my highschool physics and engineering teachers.. Life Noggin and ASAPScience. Numberphile. vihart got me into math and is one of the reasons i double majored in it!. Absolutely. These are all phenomenal creators, entertainers, and educators. I’m incredibly grateful for them.. >ctrl-f Andrew Dotson

>nothing

What's wrong with you people?. Eddie Woo, Australians of the year awards 2019, Australia‘s Local Hero Award.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eddie_Woo. Not directly a math/science channel, but Clickspring is currently building a jaw dropping replica of the [Antikythera mechanism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antikythera_mechanism): 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v19cu2hj2Ms&list=PLZioPDnFPNsHnyxfygxA0to4RXv4_jDU2&index=10. Exurb1a bro. Thank you for this, I was just thinking about some of these channels and what they bring to YouTube as educational channels.. I've got to plug my boy [blackpenrenpen](https://www.youtube.com/user/blackpenredpen)

And also check out our physics podcast channel [Eigenbros](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuV4u0GH1CUxvptHwuy6sBQ)

Here's an episode where we discuss physicists on Joe Rogan's Podcast [Joe Rogan / Eric Weinstein](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C9YGG72I12A). to be honest, I always liked science, but I didn't really decide to go into physics until I started watching minutephysics videos.. Vsauce is why I'm a physics major!. Sfia used to be good explaining some of these things but went off the deep end on futurism about a year ago. How about royal institute?. Physics girl is great too.. SciShow. It's like having 8 Carl Sagans  all producing content several times a week.. Don't forget MinutePhysics!. Those channels and many more have rekindled my passion for the sciences that fell by the wayside after crippling debt scared me into dropping out of college.. Shutout to Applied Science! Some of the best engineering work on YouTube!. D!NG. VSauce is fucking horrible clickbait sensationalism, but the rest are good.. #Minutephysics!. Don't forget SmarterEveryDay. Y'all forgetting @PhysicsGirl. Yeahh... !!. What about Numberphile??. Also EngineerGuy!. These and PBSspacetime (especially Vsauce) are what inspired me to pursue physics. Can’t thank them enough!. It might sound weird but the short engineering films from the 1930's are often better than modern stuff, and freely available on youtube. Numberphile too!. Thankyou. Would not have understood fourier transforms without you.. Numberphile as well.. Not a fan of kurzgesagt. Lots of very opinionated, non scientific content that it pushes as fact along with the real science.. The awesome science and education channels on YouTube inspired me to go into physics..  I'm surprised to see that you listed ASAPscience but not minutephysics.. Yep👍. SmarterEveryday?. I ain't got no moment.. Late to this post and probably won't even get seen, but does anyone have any channel recommendations for more rigorous STEM type channels? Something like 3Blue1Brown is a good example of what I'm looking for, which is probably one of my favorite channels.

I have an undergraduate degree in biochemistry/mathematics and am working on my PhD in biomedical engineering so a lot of times it can be hard to find channels outside of my direct field that are rigorous enough to be challenging, but not impossible for someone not in that direct field, if that makes sense..... ITT: a comprehensive list of some of the best free media available on the internet.. Mathematicians don’t contribute anything other than theoretical gobbledegook. They’re bean counters, not real scientist.. Also smarter everyday, applied science (edit: MASSIVE shout out to Kurtis baute), and probably a LOT more that deserve mentions.. Yes, how would anybody learn about physics if they didn't have flashy, easy to understand YouTube videos to tell them that it exists? Let's give a hand to all those unimaginative, lazy children who couldn't care less about discovery and creation without a white man telling them about it in a YouTube video! I can't wait to see what the people with no passion for learning or desire to teach themselves, who need somebody else to distill actual knowledge for them, create! I bet it'll blow our minds!. can even take TWO MOMENTS. Especially PBSspacetime tbh. SpaceTime is an awesome show, though an order of magnitude more complex than all those pop-sci channels.. PBS Spacetime and Eons are two of my favorite channels, so much fascinating content.. [deleted]. Came here to say this!. Their t-shirts are as epic as the universe too!. I really liked PBSinfiniteseries too bad it got shut down. the goat mid-level physics youtube channel. PBS spacetime is based. My first thought after seeing the title!. And PBS infinite series. Not just sixty symbols, the entire Brady Haran network is epic!. Also 

ViHart

ThinkTwice

Mathologer 

and RealEngineering 

(for people searching this thread for new channels). Shouldn't leave out The Science Asylum. It's ok to be a little crazy.

Also, Electroboom.. Smarter Every Day is wonderful.. And UpAndAtom, she's amazing!!. Looking Glass Universe is also good.. Plus the inevitable random people with not that incredible production values but who go through these quite advanced topics in a clear and simple way. Yeah, I couldn’t remember your name, nor spell it, nor say it properly, but shout out to random Indian grad student.. > Since I was just thinking of Susskind

A question about Susskind, he's extremely dogmatic with his defense of string theory even though it's fallen out of favor (as I understand it) recently.  Does he have a legitimate point or has string theory been regulated to the back burner?. I came to the comments to make sure Cody's lab was mentioned. 

I just finished my FYP where I was using a sputter coater (investigating surface plasmon resonance) and I cleaned all of the gold off the inside of the vacuum chamber so I could take a spectrum of the plasma. I asked could I keep what I cleaned off and I'm planning to do a gold extraction based off Cody's videos. That said I'll just try to melt it down first using a blow torch because I don't really want to fuck with cyanide salts or nitric acid.. Cody'sLab for sure.... Both of those are awesome!. Have you checked out Ben Krasnow / Applied Science?  It's another excellent channel.. They're definitely not on the same level. 3b1b And the Brady Haran channels are far above most of the others mentioned here in terms of actual scientific quality, along with a few lesser known ones like [pretty much physics] (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVa8De6q6aOjtx_TEiDBaMw). I agree with you and think Numberphile also meets that standard. They only offer a platform for experts to speak. No interpretation by the hosts. 3B1B dude is extremely knowledgeable about the topics he covers, he's not just telling you about something he decided to learn about last week.

In the same vein, *In Our Time* by the BBC is an excellent educational radio program and podcast where professors are interviewed about their fields. The host, Melvyn Bragg, is excellent at asking for clarification when necessary but leaves most of the talking to the experts.. None of those others are primarily mathematical, which tends to make a big difference IME. I would say that Mathologer and PBS Infinite Series are similarly "pure".. On the more engineering side is [Applied Science](https://www.youtube.com/user/bkraz333), which is super legit and avoids all the pop science tropes and glitz and actually explains things very well and in depth without weird analogies.. I don't see why purity is important. Surely we need different approaches so everyone finds something to motivate them?. 3B1B is arguably the best channel on all of youtube. The quality is just amazing, as is the pacing, but more importantly he produces the by far best math teaching videos on earth, completely eclipsing anything even the best college professors do.

The only problem is that he hasn't had enough time to produce a complete library yet and doesn't provide exercise problems with video solutions. But I'm sure his videos will be the standard go to videos for anyone who has to learn math in 20 years if he keeps up the production.. 3B1B is the only creator, ever, that has been able to recreate my experience of reading Martin Gardner’s Mathematical games as a child. No, I wasn’t a child in the 60-80s, I have to shout out my grandad for keeping issues of the Scientific American with accuracy, and just generally inspiring my interest in math.. You could always watch some lectures online.

But I agree, science is meant to boring.. Papa flammy is the math meme lord. Practical Engineering is excellent. His choice of topics is on point because they're all things that I know exist and have seen in real life and maybe even have some intuitive understanding of, but I always learn something. The lastest one on traffic lights is a great example; I know how they work, but I had no idea about the amount of thought and design that goes into even simple intersections.. Applied science isn’t really a physics channel, but if you are mentioning NightHawkInLight, then I have to bring him up.

Also NileRed — chemistry sure, but interesting.. He also sets a bad example with his somewhat more moronic videos (eating cyanide for example). I understand he uses disclaimers to dissuade others from doing the same, but it sets a bad precedent for people to try to do science without following the scientific method.. Too bad Infinite Series got cancelled :(. **The Mechanical Universe**

The Mechanical Universe... And Beyond is a 52-part telecourse, filmed at the California Institute of Technology, that introduces university level physics, covering topics from Copernicus to quantum mechanics.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. I had to stop watching ASAPscience when they posted a video of compounding assumptions and fallacies to prove a god exists. I lost all trust in them presenting any subject honestly.. Why im continuing my education with math past a minor (actually thanks to them, I finally had an interest in a field where I could mechanically breakdown formulas step by step, and to lesrn to be rewarded by that). I thank them so much, as a depressed but hopeful CS Major and minor in math.. Ahh man this is just a list of people I love. Walter lewin and michael van biezen are two of mt favorites. Perfect level of complexity for an intro class.. Btw if you like vsauce, Micheal mostly posts to the [d!ng channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClq42foiSgl7sSpLupnugGA) now(used to be called dong).. Presh prince of tall walkers. Surely you can see it as a positive too; it may have lulled you into a false sense of knowledgeability but conversely their popsci nature helped you realise the importance of knowing the fundamental maths and mechanics behind all those phenomena. In other words, perhaps without seeing the popsci media it may have taken you longer to realise how superficial your knowledge was, and longer to pursue a true deeper understanding?. AgentJayZ is a gem. I wish a channel like his existed for every mechanical field.. 3Blue1Brown is kurzgesagt levels of quality but more in-depth. Yes. I love his channel. Everyone says it gives them extestensial crisis, but they just say that on every episode without watching it. If they would watch to the end, they are all uplifting.. [Pretty much physics] (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVa8De6q6aOjtx_TEiDBaMw) is probably right up your alley.. A documentary of a scientist's descent to madness. Yeah until Destin started preaching religion. Numberphile is only experts being asked questions, minimal relay by the hosts, but is primarily focused on math.

Not YouTube but In Our Time podcast by BBC is only professors from European Universities being asked to explain things. No relay by the host, Melvyn Bragg, who is great at asking the questions you yourself will have after an answer by the expert guests. It covers nearly every topic. History, philosophy, all fields of science, literature, etc.. What about something like https://www.youtube.com/user/MIT

They are easier than real lectures.. I agree. These channels are entertainment, nothing more.

On the other hand they convince otherwise stingy people to agree on spending billions of tax dollars on particle accelerators, although those might as well be magic for them.. Just wanted to tell you that it's been more than three years but you're still a huge moron..... Most of it goes over my head but I really appreciate them telling actual detailed stuff. Maybe I’ll understand it I’m a few years.. [deleted]. >though an order of magnitude more complex than all those pop-sci channels.

Which is a very important niche to fill. There is a massive complexity gap between popular science channels and more technical stuff.  
Learning more when you've come to the point where you're satiated on simpler stuff and have gotten an interest, but aren't informed enough to understand things like lectures by actual professors is very hard, and Spacetime fills that gap pretty well.  
Detailed and technical explanations (for the most part), but still understandable without having the mathematical knowledge necessary to fully grasp the implications of the "neat" things you're told otherwhere.  
I'm a laboratory chemist, not a physics student/researcher, but I'm massively interested in quantum physics. The stuff I learned on channels like Vsauce was enough to get me excited about physics, but after that, without a gap filler like Spacetime, I would have never gotten to the point where I could understand anything more technical. I'm only advancing my learning progress in my limited free time, and jumping that giant gap would be way too hard without something in between.. Really some of the best content on YouTube.. You mean fininteseries?. It is.. Except that Numberphile video where they claim that the sum of the natural numbers is -1/12 by using flawed reasoning and ended up misinforming a bunch of people. The rest of his stuff is great though, I especially like the chemistry one.. Also CGP grey, stadupmaths, MinuteEarth, Steve Mould and Tom Scott.

And if you're into geography and/or history HumanInterests, KnowledgeHub, WonderWhy and Geography Now.

And if you like languages Langfocus.. I've sent some ViHart youtubes to non-math people who really enjoyed them

Lots of people I haven't heard of in this thread for me to check out!. Bit late to the show but here is a shout-out to Ben on his awesome channel **Applied Science**. He makes lots of cool stuff like aero-gel, lcd's, electron microscopes etc.. You may also enjoy *In Our Time* by BBC radio 4. It's available as a podcast.

The host, Melvyn Bragg, interviews 3 professors about the topic of the day and leaves most of the talking to them. He asks excellent questions and lets them run with it. They have episodes on all topics. The photon, the discovery of certain enzymes, particular literary works, schools of philosophical thought, echolocation, the long march, etc. I think there are over 300 episodes so many topics have been covered.. Yeah I am able to use 3B1B to actually enhance the classes I'm taking. It's more than jusy a cool 5minute video on something I'll never think about again. He helps me see the bigger picture. His video on linear transformations is one of my faves. 

I'm 3/4 through diff EQ so I'm going to watch that video he just posted.. Mathologer atleast somewhat cares about formality and proofs.. Too much dressing up gives a misleading "Hollywood" version of what science is actually like. If the primary goal is not only entertainment, but also to inspire young minds into STEM careers, then the glamorized portrayal of science attracts the wrong crowd of people chasing the cool factor who will inevitably be disillusioned, rather than people who are actually interested in the subject.. In a vacuum I'd agree, but when you're not pure it's really easy to fall into "little white lies" that snowball into a lot of BS. I also kind of question how useful glitz and glamor is for actually producing scientists. It is good for PR though, so I guess that point is kind of moot.

Like I really enjoy veritasium's old stuff where he'd present some unintuitive physics problem and explain why the answer is what it is rather than what you probably thought, but I enjoy his new stuff much less so. I get that with how many videos he's made there are bound to be some stinkers in the bunch, but the "are negative ions good for you" video is a travesty. Yes, let's just lie to the audience and parrot pseudoscientific talking points for 13 minutes just to make a point about how science is hard. That surely won't backfire at all! Or the infamous pilot wave video.. Maybe because it's written from the perspective of a person who has spent a lot of time studying the subjects and so it bears their personal preference.. If you're not motivated to learn about physics without a flashy YouTube video that's been purposefully simplified to uselessness for mass consumption, you're not going to do anything useful in physics anyway, and should find a field more suited to your talents.

 Seriously, you either care about learning or you don't. If you need somebody to turn learning into entertainment for you to care, you're not into science, you're into the idea of science and want to feel like you're doing something important.. You must have had some really bad teaching.. I prefer to think of it more as "it got approximated". exactly .. I just looked up that video, and holy cow was that painfully fallacious. I thought ASAPscience was run by actual scientists. I know biologists who hate math and are still more mathematically literate than the creators of that video.. I stopped watching about 2 years ago, when it became clear that a lot of their videos were going to be about politics and pop biology instead of actual science.. yes . dong is another of my subs .. Oof that's math tho. He only really does that on his podcast not his videos. I feel like most of the Numberphile I've seen is too pop sciencey and aimed at the lay person, have I just been watching the wrong videos on that channel? Thanks for the other recommendations, I'll check them out!. Depending on what you're interested in and what's going over your head, you can fix most of that with a basic understanding of the underlying math. For quantum and string theory, take a look at some intro sources on the mathematical field of topology. You don't need to understand it thoroughly to get an intuition of what they're saying. Just think of it as a mathematical formalization of stretchy rubber sheets, loops in space, and the notion of a hole. For relativity, take a look at manifolds. Ignore the topology stuff, it gets complicated and really only matters in the most pathological cases. Think of a manifold as the formalization of a rigid surface in some space. Again, these are just jumping off points to give you an idea of what you need to learn to understand these ideas, you don't need to go to deep into them to be able to understand PBSSpacetime. I'm happy to ramble on about any of these topics if you have any kinds of questions.. That's exactly what I love about it actually. At first it was all gobbledegook. Then as I started to rewatch videos, having seen others that explain concepts in them, a larger and larger percentage of it was at least somewhat comprehensible. More than 85% of it probably is still too specialised for me to be able to understand, but I clawed out that 15% myself and I'm proud of it.. Same, I'm a 19 year old physics major and that channel is the reason. Yes! I have a bachelor in physics although work in a very different field now but still love to learn more about it and the most of pop-sci books and videos are well too simplistic for me, while reading papers on Arxiv is usually way too challenging.. Massively agreed. :,(. Hmm. Please explain. I have no background in math or science, but my understanding was that the -1/12 video -- which I watched years ago -- rested on an assumption that is considered perfectly reasonable within some domains but not others, in the way that is sometimes possible to get disparate results in mathematics depending on the assumptions. (A triangle's angles adding up to 180 degrees -- but not necessarily in non-Euclidean geometry, say.) 

In the video, I remember they even showed a page from some advanced string theory book that showed that -1/12 result. 

So what's going on there?. Please learn about analytic continuation of the Reimann Zeta function before you misread what he was trying to convey in the video. He used a neat trick that only works in the very narrow window that he used it in, but he didn’t explain any of that and came off as an idiot. That video got more then 7 MILLION views. That's more then 3 times their second most watched video. 7 million people, way more then the number of professional mathematicians worldwide, engaged on a math video in the internet. It's a case of high level pedantic gatekeeping to not be able to see the value in this.

And they made other videos where they clearly discussed the implications and nuances associated with it, way before the Mathologer video.. That and mothologer's response are is basically the biggest "youtube math scandal". Backyardscientist, crash course, braincraft

And for the linguistic nerds, NativLang. > CGP grey

Does he still do any videos?. I actually dislike their science episodes, Bragg always seems a little out of his depth and the discussion stays mostly superficial. I love the historical episodes though. For sciencey stuff BBC Discovery is great, The Infinite Monkey Cage is also pretty good, with a much lighter and humourous atmosphere though.. I can honestly say 31B1 is the only reason I did well in my linear algebra classes. Because of him, I already had all of the intuitions in my head, and how everything fit together. I just had to learn some of the more technical minutia in the classes.. Wait he literally debunks the whole "negative ions are good for you" statement though.... Have you seen 3B1B? The animations help a lot with building an intuitive understanding that you can't provide in writing.. F. DONG? That's sounds ridiculous! It's called D!NG and has always been.. He also has some stuff on machine learning. But go through the playlists, you should understand essence of calculus with high school math (or it will help you a lot if you're in high school right now). End of videos he shares a psalm which I consider pedaling religion. 

What a hypocrite. They have a lot of different people who regularly present so maybe just look around their playlists and find someone you like. I enjoy that they actually let professors talk and give concrete examples instead of a lay host relaying something they studied for a week.

The explanation of the Mandelbrot set as the set of complex constants that converge to zero under repeat iterations z'(z) = z^2 + C was something that all the other "woah fractal" videos obfuscated behind woahness. They use a simple script on geogebra to show how its mapped and boom, it makes perfect sense.

It can be slow because they introduce iteration and complex numbers first but they are actually stepping you through the math so you could explain it to someone else.. Ah, thank you for this. I never even knew what math to learn while watching the videos. But what would be the prerequisites to learn all that? I’m in grade 11 (just starting calculus) and I really doubt I would be able to grasp such advanced topics but I’ll give it a go anyways.. I wish you good luck for the wars to come!. You are right. 

I think the problem was that they tried to prove/explain the result in a way that was flawed. 

It’s been a while since I learned about the controversy but that’s what I remember.. [Here's a long video which goes through it. ](https://youtu.be/YuIIjLr6vUA) Essentially the reasoning they use to show the result rests on performing mathematical operations on infinite sequences of numbers which are not actually valid for those types of infinite sequences. I'm in bed and sleepy so I forget the specifics but it's true that the sum of natural numbers is positive infinity, not -1/12. However, due to some very complicated maths and physics, the -1/12 result is still useful in some ways because it's like saying "ok, so this sum comes up in physics. We know that this sum diverges which isn't useful to us because infinity is not a number, but we can make it converge by handling sequences of numbers slightly differently (and slightly incorrectly). What does it converge to now?". It's not quite correct but it still tells us something important and fundamental about the nature of the sum of natural numbers - but make no mistake, -1/12 is not the correct answer. 

Unfortunately I cannot offer a better explanation than that as this maths and physics is way above my current level (I'm a first year undergrad in physics). I recommend the video.. Caring about mathematical correctness is gatekeeping?. I don't agree. Best I can recall, the most out of his depth was the Phenomenology episode and it was still hugely informative (though i concede philosophy is not my specialty.) I've listened to nearly all the science episodes and found them to be satisfying and more informative than 90% of educational programs. For physics topics like the photon they cover a lot of the basic stuff but you'll catch comments from the expert panel that wouldn't be easily parsable by a layperson but serves to expand your understanding if your a physicist who doesn't specifically study the photon.. Math however is an art of pure form.

There is no meaning beyond the technical minutae.. Then why make the video?. How do those animations help you with developing an understanding of what it means for a function to be an endomorphism in a potentially infinite dimensional vector space for an arbitrary field?

You *only* gain that kind of intuition by reading so many proofs and proofing so many things involving such endomorphisms, that you get an intuition of how you could manipulate the signs on your paper in a way that you want.

I would say such videos could potentially be harmful, because they harden your believe that everything is basically R\^n, which to overcome is as difficult as it is necessary.. DONG = doing online now guys. Currently in high school, I got a major fucking headache so I am not gonna even look at it.. Well manifolds might be a little tricky. It's like trying to do calculus but on the surface of a water bottle (for example). Topology, you have to be willing to let your mind flow a little loose. Start with the notion of a set, then try understanding the topology of the real line (think open and closed intervals). From there it's just generalization. The thing you should be looking to make it to is quotient spaces, which basically says if I go a certain amount it's similar to coming around the other side. Think, take a cylinder and slice it along a side to unroll it into a rectangle. Then move along the surface of the cylinder until you fall off one of the cut edges, but instead of falling off you come back on the opposite side as if the cylinder was never cut. Beyond that, you want a decent notion of compact spaces (think small enough to have a reasonable notion of volume) and dimension (which should be thought of as the number of decisions one has to make to describe a point in space, ie the number of variables).

If you'd like, I can hunt down a few good beginners references that have a specific focus on the high level.. Thank you. IIRC, they do state in the video that the calculation you are referring to is meant to be seen as a suggestive hint that -1/12 might play a role, and not as a legitimate computation.. Thanks! I'll check it out.. Apparently doing whatever is great if a lot of people are watching and there are formulas in it.

TIL that asking that popularizations are technically correct is *pedantic gatekeeping*.. It's a bait and switch. He knows pseudoscience lovers will type that, he at first appears on their side supposedly saying there is research supporting their view. But then slowly starts to show why these studies are flawed and does an experiment himself. It's been shown that simply saying to pseudoscience believers that they are wrong or quoting studies has the opposite effect in changing their minds. He just made a video trying things in the recommended reverse psychology way. It's actually a brilliant video when you think about it.. > I would say such videos could potentially be harmful, because they harden your believe that everything is basically R\^n, which to overcome is as difficult as it is necessary.

He absolutely addresses that, unlike most college professors.

> How do those animations help you with developing an understanding of what it means for a function to be an endomorphism in a potentially infinite dimensional vector space for an arbitrary field?

Scaling to infinite dimensions is far easier than initially wrapping your head around vector spaces. The visualization helps with an intuitive understanding of what those elusive things even mean. You can abstract further *after* you have understood it. That's how mathematicians have always done it.

Of course his channel doesn't even fully cover year 1 math yet. So relatively useless for math students. But it's getting to a point where in maybe 1 or 2 years engineering students can find all the math they need for common real world applications there. And an intuitive, visual understanding is really helpful, if not crucial for engineers.. What? No, that's ridiculous! It's always been called D!NG.. Whoa all this seems way to advanced for me! I might be able to manage manifolds but this topology thing seems kinda tricky. I’m really curious, where did you learn all this? What course are you pursuing?. It's called clickbait, dude. It's not some masterful scheme to educate you, it's just doing what thousands of other popular "content" creators on YouTube do.. I have to admit, I can only speak to myself and what I have witnessed. Further I have little idea, what might be useful for an engineer.

However, I am just always perplexed by people saying that videos like 3b1b actually helped them to pass exams. Very little of what he did would have helped me to pass my exams in either linear algebra or physics. I those I had to prove all sorts of things or had to imagine what happens if our electrical source suddenly starts spinning or becomes a torus. Things I could only do, because I spend hours on proving other related things.

> The visualization helps with an intuitive understanding of what those elusive things even mean. 

My point is precisely that those things mean nothing. A vector space is set on which some functions might be defined. And those things again only mean some other manipulation of signs. There are things in this world that might be abstracted and then modeled as such things, but a vector space is not actually a space, or anything real. This way of thinking is probably not needed by most people, but I think it is important for mathematicians; I had people ask me if the possibility of embedding Hilbert Spaces into l\^2 meant that they were all the same except for rotation. 

I don't want to criticize people for liking such videos or force them to learn a certain way. I just have the impression many people get the feeling to have understood something, but do not realize how shallow their understanding is. A phenomenon that seems to be very prevalent with pop-sci sources.. I'm an undergraduate, just finished my third year of my math major. A love of physics got me interested in math in the first place, and now that I'm much more versed in the math I'm trying to bring it back to physics in a pretty abstract way (read I've been trying to understand string theory since senior year of hs and finally had a prof explain it to me lol). The basic sequence to get to at least topology in undergraduate is to finish calc, take a proof based linear algebra, then either take a course on real analysis or go straight into topology. I found along the way that I love the math and the proofs so much more than the physics, I'll be applying to PhD programs next semester. I highly recommend taking some higher math courses regardless of what you go into. Abstract algebra is my favorite and incredibly tangible to the point a high schooler could pick up some of it. I'd really recommend reading the first chapter or so of Pinter's "A Book of Abstract Algebra." It's aimed towards people who have never seen a proof before and is really simple to pick up and gives a fantastic intuitive understanding. If you Google for it's PDF, the first link ought to be a free copy.. He literally told his viewers differently but ok, I won't fight your opinion since we obviously see the guy in a different light. I find kurtzegat or whatever to be click bait far more often.. Yeah 3B1B doesn't teach useful things for exams per se, but it teaches the basis you need to get the most out of studying.

And I don't know about you, but I had no chance wrapping my head around linear algebra before I understood what operations did in R2 and R3. If you do, higher dimensions become an additional thing you already kind of know and just have to accept without a visualization.. Wow! I’m thinking of pursuing a physics course in university (with maths of course). I’ve been really interested in astronomy. There isn’t any physics without maths, I know. Best of luck for your PhD, truly, and thank you for the book recommendation. It’s my dream to do something in scientific research, (I’d need a PhD for that as well, I think). But recently I’ve been thinking of doing engineering after a bit of research that told me it’s not well paying at all. I think your program has a similar touch. Did you/do you not worry about the paying or employing aspect of this? Because the online statistics are kinda scary.. I am just bewildered by people commenting on his videos with things like "My professor taught me nothing the whole semester; I only passed because of his videos" or even "I am doing my PhD in theoretical physics right now and never understood PDEs until Grant explained them to me."

Those comments are frequent and always highly upvoted/liked.

I am a bit on the hard formalist side, I know, I just want to provide a different perspective on mathematics, which is sometimes lacking. 

That again leads to people wasting their time and dropping out of their studies, because it turns out studying physics involves spending hours in a lab minimaly changing some angle of a pendulum and then writing down some number. 

Or becoming disappointed with math [although I have seen that more often with computer science (which turns out is a science) and physics.]. I am worried in the sense that I know I'm going to have to live a very modest life for a very large chunk of it if I want to be successful in academics (modulo a good relationship with a financially well-endowed partner). I've made the personal decision that I'm ok not making a ton of money, but on the other hand if it turns out that this isn't a life I want to make I also know that the skill set I'm learning is preparing me extremely well for some well paying jobs. I'm interning this summer at one of the top-paying internships in the US because of it. That's the fortunate thing about studying math or physics: the math is complicated to the point that very few people understand it, yet the same math is highly desired in a bunch of extremely lucrative areas. I will never be needing money provided I'm willing to sacrifice other passions, and the same would be true for you if you decide to go down that path.

With that being said, also get some coding experience. All the math and physics skills in the world aren't worth shit if you can't make a computer do them for you. Most of the job opportunities for math/physics dropouts are in algorithmic design, machine learning, or similar areas. It's just that we're specifically equipped to understand the underlying math in what goes on there.. Ohh, thanks a lot for the information. I’ve also heard physicists and astrophysicists doing some other job like engineering due to insufficient jobs in the market for them. I really enjoy research in physics, but this is what worries and angers me. 

I’m glad you could get a good internship, maybe this will turn into a long term employment as well. I’ve heard many people talk about coding too, and I’m currently learning it although I’m just at the basics. 

Thanks again for all the information and recommendations. Hope you do great!!. Thanks for the wishes! I'm always happy to help. Feel free to DM me if you have any more questions regarding anything! Christmas Physics Humor by Neil deGrasse Tyson. nan. Santa has to know physics: in order to deliver all those presents on time, he and his sleigh have to travel at relativistic speeds, relying on time dilation to get it all done.. He also said last year that Rudolf's shiny nose could only work in a well lit night as that's the definition and property of something 'shiny'.. [deleted]. That's actually really cool and made me realize that not only to people associate red as stop or emergency. it also doubles as better seen at night through fog in bad conditions. . And when santa wants to scare people, he puts both at the front to simulate police car lights . I tapped on the Twitter back arrow for two fucking minutes.. What did Billy the Brown Nose get?. but isn't red light generally perceived as darker compared to other light colors of the same intensity? Thats why tactical light sources are usually red. Would be interesting to see this taken into account. Blue light, Red light, same intensity. Which one can actually be seen farther through fog?
. Direct link: https://twitter.com/neiltyson/status/548146987053617154. Kinda reminds me of [this](http://youtu.be/_V6NL3glywY?t=1m1s) Kingdom Heart's Quote.... Don't make [Tony Tony Chopper](https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tony+tony+chopper&client=opera&hs=yze&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=wqacVJriAoLmUuKQgrAL&ved=0CDMQsAQ&biw=1006&bih=641)... [angry](https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=tony+tony+chopper&client=opera&hs=yze&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=wqacVJriAoLmUuKQgrAL&ved=0CDMQsAQ&biw=1006&bih=641#tbm=isch&q=tony+tony+chopper+monster+point&revid=614202318&imgdii=_)!. Other than that whole thing where he has to travel faster than light to deliver an enormous mass of presents to every house on Earth in the course of one night.. Why aren't fog lights on cars red then? That would be handy.. AKA Bluedolf . [deleted]. But isn't his nose reflecting light not emitting light?. That, and 'Benny the blue nosed', was a bison . not funny... ELI5: If more red passes through, then why don't clouds appear reddish?. wait, what? we all know that the best headlights for anti glare are selective yellow. AKA yellow light that has all the blue filtered out.  That's why fog lights tend to be selective yellow. Maybe red is the most efficient in a physical term but definitely not in regards to human vision.. True facts from the science man. Radio waves would probably work even better though.. Isn't red absorbed more than other colors? I would expect that the same would apply to fog.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electromagnetic_absorption_by_water. How does this post have 3k upvotes? Most posts don't get past 50. Where is everyone coming from?. He also tweeted about it being Isaac Newton's birthday, which I hadn't known about. . Rayleigh the red nose reindeer would have been more appropriate. . In addition, red light is the least obtrusive to the human's natural night vision.. God, he is obnoxious.. Correction. Coca Cola knows physics and saved Santa's ass from being hit by planes. He was blue before their intervention. . Mind bloooown!. [Edit: spelling]Would he be traveling so fast his sleigh and suit would be shifted blue for some observers?. nah he is a 6 dimensional being capable of being in every house at the same time . But then, time would move slower for him, so he would take possibly years of Earth time to make it through the night. What he really needs is a sleigh that will move the earth at relativistic speeds while the sleigh isn't.. Colloquially, stars and lightbulbs "shine" even though they're producing their own light. Therefore they can be said to be "shiny" just like Rudolph's nose. . ... whut?. 12/25 = 10/31

Actually... that doesn't work either. 12/25 = .48 and 10/31 = 0.32258064516. While red/infrared light can go further through fog than the other visible wavelengths, our eyes are significantly more sensitive to green wavelengths.. Hence the choice of reds and greens for traffic lights.. That's a really long time. . Pink eye. $100 fine for tailgating. . A promotion.  But all of the other reindeer hate him.. Red wave lengthe take more energy and have more evergy. Like a subwoofer, a low intensity tone is heard well on either side of a wall where a tweeter is obviously going to deteriorate quickly through an obstruction.
. Thank you for the link. I'm on my phone, and I wasn't able to get it from there. Why on earth does this link simply refuse to open in the Twitter app for iPhone?. True. But legally, red is reserved for emergency vehicles and that sort of thing. Yellow is simply convention, it has no special reason. . VIBGYOR so, yes, close to red, but not quite.. They do when the sun is realy low because the light has to pass through more of the athmosphere. But generaly it is bot noticable.. Here is a quick experiment while driving on a foggy night (while still driving safely, obviously): which do you see more clearly, tail lights or head lights? Generally, tail lights are easily perceived through fog without major glare.. #####&#009;

######&#009;

####&#009;
 [**Electromagnetic absorption by water**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electromagnetic%20absorption%20by%20water): [](#sfw) 

---

>

>The __absorption of electromagnetic radiation by water__ depends on the [state](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_of_matter) of the water.

>The absorption in the __gas phase__ occurs in three regions of the spectrum. [Rotational transitions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotational_spectroscopy) are responsible for absorption in the [microwave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microwave) and [far-infrared](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far-infrared), vibrational transitions in the [mid-infrared](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mid-infrared) and [near-infrared](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Near-infrared). Vibrational bands have rotational fine structure. Electronic transitions occur in the [vacuum ultraviolet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuum_ultraviolet) regions.

>__Liquid water__ has no rotational spectrum but does absorb in the microwave region.

>====

>[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/w4xn4OP.gif) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Water_infrared_absorption_coefficient.gif) - *Absorption spectrum \(attenuation coefficient vs. wavelength\) of liquid water \(red\)   atmospheric water vapor \(green\)  and ice \(blue line\)  between 667 nm and 200 μm.  The plot for vapor is a transformation of data Synthetic spectrum for gas mixture 'Pure H2O' \(296K, 1 atm\) retrieved from Hitran on the Web Information System.  [6]*

---

^Interesting: [^Absorption ^\(electromagnetic ^radiation)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absorption_\(electromagnetic_radiation\)) ^| [^Photic ^zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photic_zone) ^| [^Blue ^hole](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_hole) ^| [^Properties ^of ^water](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Properties_of_water) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cn5tg77) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&message=%2Bdelete+cn5tg77)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/). agreed. he drives me crazy. i miss people like sagan, feynman, eo wilson (still kicking it), asimov, gamov, etc. that could popularize science accurately and non-condescendingly. tyson's THAT guy in graduate school that is just louder than everyone else.. [Correction.](http://www.snopes.com/holidays/christmas/santa/cocacola.asp). Only if he's moving toward them. . If he's moving towards you at relativistic speeds, then he would appear "blueshifted", which means that his colors will appear shifted towards the blue end of the spectrum, not necessarily actually blue.

The faster he's traveling, the closer to blue his colors will get.  This means that depending on his speed, the red of his suit and Rudolph's nose could appear orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, or violet.  Presumably he has to keep his speed low enough that he doesn't emit ultraviolet, X-rays, or gamma rays, since that wouldn't be very good for the children he's delivering presents to.
. I believe it is possible, but I think it's highly dependent on the observer's frame of reference (i.e. placement of observers viewpoint). Someone please do correct me if I'm wrong, though.. Why six?. > But then, time would move slower for him, so he would take possibly years of Earth time to make it through the night. 

That's not right.  Traveling at e.g. 99% the speed of light, he could travel all the way around the Earth (without stopping) in about 135 milliseconds, from the perspective of a stationary observer on the surface.  He would age less than the stationary observer, so he would experience less time than that - about 20 milliseconds, actually.  The real problem he'd face is that he'd have to work awfully fast to actually deliver the presents.

> What he really needs is a sleigh that will move the earth at relativistic speeds while the sleigh isn't.

That would have the effect of making Santa age more than the stationary inhabitants of Earth, which would give him more time to do the present delivery.  But repeatedly accelerating Earth to the speed of light and back to a stop as he does his rounds would put a bit of a damper on Christmas...
. Velocity is relative. From his perspective earth is indeed moving at realtivistic speed and clocks on earth are ticking slower than his clock. This is similar to the [twin paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twin_paradox) and the trick lies in acceleration.. Dec == decimal, our normal base 10 number system.

Oct == octal, base 8 numbering system.

25 in our normal base 10 == 31 in base 8

Dec 25 == Oct 31. 25 base 10 is 31 base 8.. A for effort.. It's not the normal interpretation, but it *does* work in a lot of programming languages:

    >>> 12/25
    0
    >>> 10/31
    0
    >>> 12/25 == 10/31
    True. Yeah but I was thinking about how we psychology already associated red with stop? Is that because red lights from traffic or from way before that. . >Red wave lengthe take more energy and have more evergy.

Uh... More energy per what? Because individual photons of red light have the least energy of any color.. Absolutely. And the worship of him is terribly obnoxious, too. If his antics didn't garner such popularity, it wouldn't be as big a deal to me because he wouldn't be popping up everywhere and talked about with such a religious fervor. He, and 99% of the facts he shares, are really no big deal at all and his smug attitude and arrogance are intolerable.. This is called Doppler blueshift if I'm not mistaken, correct?. deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.1995  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/12540). but since bis clothes appear to be red he initially has to wear infrared colored clothing. Because 7 is too many and 5 just isn't enough.. Oh right, I was only thinking about a flight for a long duration rather than how quickly he could get around the earth. I guess the time dilation think wouldn't really be a factor then.

And I do suppose it wouldn't be very fun to accelerate to relativistic speeds and back, but it could be really cool if we magically found a way to survive that and take data.. #####&#009;

######&#009;

####&#009;
 [**Twin paradox**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twin%20paradox): [](#sfw) 

---

>In physics, the __twin paradox__ is a [thought experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thought_experiment) in [special relativity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special_relativity) involving identical twins, one of whom makes a journey into space in a high-speed rocket and returns home to find that the twin who remained on Earth has aged more. This result appears puzzling because each twin sees the other twin as moving, and so, according to an incorrect naive application of [time dilation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_dilation) and the [principle of relativity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_relativity), each should paradoxically find the other to have aged more slowly. However, this scenario can be resolved within the standard framework of special relativity: the travelling twin's trajectory involves two different inertial frames, one for the outbound journey and one for the inbound journey, and so there is no symmetry between the spacetime paths of the two twins. Therefore the twin paradox is not a [paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox) in the sense of a logical contradiction.

>====

>[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/sS1QJz8.png) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Twin_Paradox_Minkowski_Diagram.svg)

---

^Interesting: [^Proper ^time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proper_time) ^| [^Time ^for ^the ^Stars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_for_the_Stars) ^| [^Time ^dilation ^of ^moving ^particles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_dilation_of_moving_particles) ^| [^CSI: ^Cyber](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSI:_Cyber) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cn5cg86) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&message=%2Bdelete+cn5cg86)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/). How is the earth moving at relativistic speeds from his perspective?. Damn, that's cool... . Aaaah... OK, that makes sense.. How lenient of you, dear sir.. If I remember right, our eyes are more sensitive to the red-end of the spectrum so it's more of a biological thing.. i am downvoted fairly often for pointing this out, so i'm glad to see another reasonable voice out there. :) you echo my concerns with him almost identically.

regarding his facts and smugness, i have found that he can often even be incorrect or at least misleading, which his outward confidence only serves to magnify the danger in that.

i just don't get it.. Yes, that's correct.  [Link](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blueshift#Doppler_blueshift).. Sure, he's small but he's much closer than a galaxy.  If you can see him when he's stopped, you'd be able to see him when he's traveling at relativistic speeds, as long as he's still emitting visible light.

The real challenge would be that you wouldn't really have time to see him, given that he's traveling the relatively short distances on Earth at near the speed of light.  Also, air resistance would turn his sled into an atmosphere-consuming fireball which would extinguish nearly all life on Earth.  Ho ho ho!
. As Benutzername said, velocity is relative.  When Santa is in inertial motion, then in his rest frame, the Earth would be moving underneath him at relativistic speeds, and he would observe time on Earth traveling slower than on the sleigh, i.e. less time would pass on Earth.

However, Santa wouldn't be spending much time in inertial motion if he has to stop at every house.  The acceleration he undergoes in stopping and starting would end up causing less time to pass for him than on Earth.

(Although in this case the time dilation isn't a big factor because the distances involved are small.)
. [deleted]. Awesome. And I agree. It is dangerous having an influential person spreading misinformation. Let me PM you a link to something you may enjoy.. Maybe he's like The Flash, and can somehow move faster than light without fusing with air molecules.

Maybe The Flash *is* Santa, and the fat old man outfit is just for show.. #####&#009;

######&#009;

####&#009;
 [**Purkinje effect**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purkinje%20effect): [](#sfw) 

---

>

>The __Purkinje effect__ (sometimes called the __Purkinje shift__, or __dark adaptation__ and named after the [Czech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Czechs) [anatomist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anatomist) [Jan Evangelista Purkyně](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_Evangelista_Purkyn%C4%9B)) is the tendency for the peak [luminance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luminance) sensitivity of the [human eye](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_eye) to shift toward the [blue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue) end of the [color spectrum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_spectrum) at low [illumination](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illumination_(lighting\)) levels.   [*[page needed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citing_sources)*]

>This effect introduces a difference in color [contrast](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contrast_(vision\)) under different levels of illumination. For instance, in bright [sunlight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunlight), [geranium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pelargonium) [flowers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flower) appear bright red against the dull [green](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green) of their [leaves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leaf), or adjacent blue flowers, but in the same scene viewed at [dusk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dusk), the contrast is reversed, with the red [petals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petal) appearing a dark red or black, and the leaves and blue petals appearing relatively bright.

>The sensitivity to light in [scotopic vision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotopic_vision) varies with wavelength, though the perception is essentially [black-and-white](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black-and-white). The Purkinje shift is the relation between the absorption maximum of [rhodopsin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhodopsin), reaching a maximum at about 500 nm, and that of the [opsins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opsin) in the long-wavelength and medium-wavelength cones that dominate in [photopic vision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photopic_vision), about 555 nm. 

>====

>[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/ZWPsdQ1.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Red_geranium_photoic_mesopic_scotopic.jpg) - *Simulated appearance of a red geranium and foliage in normal bright-light \(photopic\) vision, dusk \(mesopic\) vision, and night \(scotopic\) vision*

---

^Interesting: [^Moonlight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonlight) ^| [^Chromatic ^adaptation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromatic_adaptation) ^| [^Safelight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safelight) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cn6b4ae) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&message=%2Bdelete+cn6b4ae)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/). Thanks for that. Biology was never my forte.. can you pm me that link too? . It's no scientific study or anything, just a guy ripping on N.D. Tyson. I found it enjoyable. http://thebiggestproblemintheuniverse.com/episode-11/. Yeah got bored wanted to watch someone flaming him. :)) thanks! I'll give it a try. haha. I've listened to every podcast since the beginning. I was very glad to hear they brought him in as a problem. Tell me what you think once you've listened! Dirac and Feynman. One, a man of few words and the other quite the opposite. Both geniuses.. nan. “He is a second Dirac, only this time human.”—Eugene Wigner. For anyone interested, Feynman has some fantastic (mostly) accessible books. Check out 
- what do you care what other people think
- six easy pieces
- six not so easy pieces 
- the pleasure of finding things out. [deleted]. Love this photo.  Thanks for sharing. 

I'm currently slogging through feynman's biography, and having a rough go at it.  He's much more engaging to listen to, than to read... it's nice to be reminded of his humanity from this photo though.  I'm inspired to have another go at the book.. Funny seeing this post here today. Was just reading Graham Farmelo's book on Dirac (The Strangest Man, if anyone wants to pick it up) and had covered the conversations with Feynman a couple of hours back. Nice to have an image associated with one of those meetings.. Anyone else think Dirac looks like a vampire?. Perhaps the best duo in physics? Seems that they had nontrivial correspondence.

IIRC, Dirac conveyed the importance of action to Feynman, and hypothesized its fundamentality in quantum mechanics. Feynman later derived the Path Integral Formulation by extensively using action. In this way, the Lagrangian method in Classical Physics is extended to the quantum paradigm.. A better B/w pic
https://ysfine.com/feynman/feydirac0.jpg. I have an equation, do you have one?. If anyone has the time, they should check out Feynman's Dirac lecture. It's very nice, and you learn some bits about why Feynman considered Dirac to be his hero.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MDZaM-Bi-kI

 It's actually quite interesting to see the line through Dirac's work to Feynman's, starting from Dirac's work on antimatter leading him to the genesis of quantum field theory and the first, though flawed, version of quantum electrodynamics. He also was the one to suggest the Lagrangian approach to quantum mechanics that led Feynman and Wheeler to the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, as remarked in Feynman's thesis. Dirac also made great strides in the operator formalism of qft, so however you use qft, Dirac was a major contributor. Dirac also contributed heavily to our understanding of spin statistics and the relation to relativity. It should also be noted that his contributions had immense mathematical ramifications, namely his work on monopoles is not only physically relevant to this day, but Dirac had stumbled upon fibre bundles 2 years before even the mathematicians, and this was during times when the physicists were the ones decades behind the mathematicians! Furthermore his techniques used to why "wedding" special relativity and quantum mechanics have led to the Dirac operator, a surprisingly useful concept relevant to SUSY and differential geometry. His notation is also worth its weight in gold, as writing down hundreds of integrals is total ass. He also wrote ~~possibly~~ *the greatest* first or second course on quantum mechanics there is, so do also check that one out.. The colourizing has spoilt this photo for me, the original seems to be black and white, the added colours look unnatural and particularly confusing as to what season it is.. Fun fact: Feynman was actually not too far above average in IQ. Supposedly, he would brag and joke about this, perhaps to emphasize the fact that anyone who works hard enough can make an impact in physics.. What would they be talking about you think ?

- "I have an equation. Do you have one too?" ?. Im also subbed to r/malefashion and first thought that’s was a post from there😂. WTF!? How have I never seen this photo before!?

Iconic.. My two favorite physicists. Love Feynman's books. As someone with only a high school physics class under his belt, I found his work to be extremely accessible to me. 

I've also found this quote to be extremely inspiring for me in regards to trying things I thought too hard:

> I had a calculus book once that said, ‘What one fool can do, another can.’

That book is [_Calculus Made Easy_ by Silvanus Thompson](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/33283), btw. It's a great introduction to calculus for anyone who needs that sort of thing.. Feymann is going to keep talking because that's what he does and Dirac is going to keep listening because it's phenomenal.. they are both amazing people. i am personally a big fan of feynman. I didn’t know Deadpool dabbled in physics. At least the words Feynman spoke were worth listening to!  Same with Dirac even though he was not as long winded.. I remember seeing this photo long time ago (early internet) as a black and white picture.  It had quite an impression on me.. what's going on in this picture?. [deleted]. Two of my favorites.. Kinda like Phineas and Ferb. My God, Dirac was 90% legs.. Doctor Cox and Mr. Burns. The body language is amazing.. I love them.. perfect. It‘s almost like the Dirac delta vs. the Feynman diagrams.. So much physics in one picture. “those bar girls are all bitches, that they aren’t worth anything, and all they’re in there for is to get you to buy them a drink, and they’re not going to give you a goddamn thing; I’m not going to be a gentleman to such worthless bitches” — Richard Feynman. /r/physicscirclejerk. It amazes me how most of the comments here are just about Feynman saying "Girls at bars are bitches" or whatever. I don't know why but it amuses me.. H  is a ugh. [deleted]. Wigner knew what he was talking about since his sister married Dirac.. It seems like Dirac was Wigner's friend.. ‘*The Pleasure of Finding Things Out’* is a great collection of essays, talks, and interviews. You can get a great feel for the man in his work and his phenomenal personality. It’s a good introduction or just general overview. Highly recommended.

The biography ‘*Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman* by James Gleick is one of the best books I’ve read in recent years. Without a doubt his magnetic and boisterous essence comes through loud and clear. So many anecdotes and observations of peers really bring him to life. Even if you’re not into the sciences or the like you will enjoy this book. If you have a chance, check this out.. This might not be accurate, but I believe the *Six Easy Pieces* and *Six Not-so Easy Pieces* books are distillations from the *Feynman Lectures on Physics* to reach a broader audience.. “You must be kidding mr Feynman” was my first book. And still my fav.. In case it's of interest, it should be *teeming here.. His heavy Brooklyn accent (sounds like?) is part of his appeal. He's an Einstein with Ralph Cramden's voice.. Well I am currently reading a biography of Dirac, it's very good actually, "The Strangest Man" written by Graham Farmello. Would recommend. Is the biography "Genius"? That's an incredible book, I had trouble putting it down. [deleted]. I have that book but didn’t get round to it yet! Is it any good?. Dirac is short for Diracula. [Diracula](https://twitter.com/Dirac_ula/status/1047547274111438850). Dirac didn't tell Feynman directly; Feynman got it through a paper Dirac wrote, which was recommended to him by Herbert Jehle. Schwinger's method also extended the notion of the action into quantum mechanics, but in a different way. In the end, they are equivalent, as shown by Dyson.. They were active in different periods of time. A better (and somewhat strange) duo were Dirac and Heisenberg. Many articles/book chapters have been written about their interactions, contrasting personalities and their view of life.. There we go.. Where/ how did he stumble upon fiber bundles?. [deleted]. Is that why they both look to have some skin condition?. Yeah, this photo is shit.  The original is much better.. ^Stephen ^Hawking ^when ^asked ^about ^his ^I.Q.:

>**I have no idea. People who boast about their I.Q. are losers.**

      — 2004 New York Times interview. I don't know about that.. Just because he said he was definitely doesn't make it true. He was probably trying to make physics seem more accessible, but his understanding of math and physics from an early age shows how much brighter he was than most people.. Wasnt he doing differential equations and vector calculus in like 8th grade?. IMHO, it's not about hard work, it's about what a poor indicator of "intelligence" IQ tests are. There are many kinds of intelligence and IQ tests measure almost none of them.. I suspect that this is not a fact, I accept that IQ is a misused concept but this seems like more misuse.. Pretty sure he had genius level IQ, despite what he might’ve claimed.. Go for it.. No one is perfect. Why? He is nothing compared to them? Hes a business man, in a completely different field ,you tire iron.. Good one!. As I'm reading this thread I was about to suggest the Feynman lectures. Then I realized that they're not as comprehensible to other people as they are me. But Six Easy Pieces was written as a response to people who wanted to learn from the lectured but lacked the background of CalTech kids.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Haha.  Well said.. With a sprinkling of Bukowski.... Happy Cakes to you friend!. This is not only my favourite biography on a historical scientist, but in my opinion, the most well written. For a man that led a rather dull life, compared to the colourful ones of Schrödinger and Feynman, I expected the pacing to be a challenge to struggle through in parts, even to a Physicist. But they really did a good job with it, and I thought it was very well rounded, funnily enough a quality that is lacking in any Feynman/Schrödinger biography I've read.. Oooohhhh.  Adding it to my list.  Thanks!. Yes, it was great. I read it, but also have it on my list to buy the audio version. I'm finding it hard to go back through books these days.. No, I've not read "Genius". I'll look it up!!!   Thanks. 

I was referring to "Surely you must be joking, Mr. Feynman".  The stories are interesting, but for me it's missing the nuance of Feynman's character.  He is a fantastic storyteller in the documentary "The Pleasure of Finding Things Out". He was incredibly charismatic, and energetic. The biography is missing all of the little tangents, and the context he delivers while giving interviews..

I know lots of people enjoy that book...  it feels soulless to me though.. the audio version spoke by fyenman is quick and entertaining!. I really loved that book, so much I already read it twice. I highly recommend it, but maybe it's not for everyone's taste. Not just you. I don't deny his genius or his charm but he was a sexist pig, and new well of his own charm. It's terribly boring.... it reads like a list.  I had really expected better from the way he can tell a story in an interview, or any of the documentaries I've seen appear in.. I like the amount of detail and how thorough it is. Even the least interesting year of his life would expand to a bunch of pages and that is very immersive in a way. The only qualm I have with it is that Farmelo's explanations of the physics concepts involved didn't sit well with me. If you're familiar with Dirac's contributions (for the most part), then you can just skip through those and get the historical context, which was my main takeaway.. I finished it a while back. It's pretty good history wise on Dirac. Pretty in depth with his early and mid life. Though towards the end of the book it starts to skip a lot compared to the beginning. 

There was a few paragraphs at the end discuss whether Dirac was autistic which I didn't like. And there is very little physical explanation or mathematics of Dirac's work. I'd recommend Abraham Pais book for a better treatment.. I would read that comic.. [deleted]. Dirac's "The Principles of Quantum Mechanics". Great read, and if I'm not mistaken was the book Feynman was talking about that got him to start thinking about qed in the first place.. This is consistent with empirical observation in my view.. > I used to be a member of Mensa but left after realizing that 90% of the members were incapable of maintaining their end of a conversation and had difficulty in expressing any personal warmth; the only emotion I ever encountered was naked aggression.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC539434/. Maybe he just wanted to showcase how dumb IQ tests are as a measure of intelligence?. Just to make it clear, IQ doesn't say anything about intelligence. I had to do a test when I was 5 years old (it is actually one of my earliest memories) because my doctor thought an extremely high IQ could explain my social awkwardness at that time.

I asked the psychologist what this test is about and she said it is generally just about how well and fast your brain is working. In real life this mostly shows while skimming texts or grasping concepts.

Right now I am studying physics and I now understand what she meant. Even if I never heard about a topic before I need like 20 minutes to get a general undrerstanding of it. But discovering new physics or creating new concepts has much more to do with creativity and intuition than with high IQ. So whether the fact about Feynmans IQ is true or not, creativity is far more important in higher sciences.. He self studied differential and integral calculus in highschool, around when he was 15.
Source: Biography.. Yes, and also had the best score on Princeton's entrance physics exam ever by a mile (at the time at least, I don't know if it's been beaten). And when he was a grad student people will read Wheeler's papers and say "This is definitely Feynmann. Wheeler is nowhere near this good at math.". I'm not sure that's a real good indication. The only reason you couldn't do that as a child is because you weren't taught the proper background quickly enough. Anyone can do it.. The problem being that a lot of the other "intelligences" such as "emotional intelligence" are pretty much people self-reporting that they have this.. Those lectures were meant for undergrads, but they didn't understand them. Instead, the lectures were attended by graduates student, post docs, and other professors.

Feynman says things in those lectures that are *deeply* true. But many of those instances only make sense once you know the material.

While I found those three volumes to be brilliant at the end of my PhD career, I would never recommend them for a novice. There are much better beginner texts out there now. Hey, i have them all and like them... there's something so *clear* and precise in his lectures.. The lectures assume a mathematical background of up to (about) university level multi-variable/vector calculus.. He was a New Yorker so in real life, he'd have probably gone, "You've gotta be kidding me!!". Yup!. Okay, just thought I'd mention it in case it was a learning opportunity for someone. :).. I cried at the end. What a life. That and Prometheus are, in my opinion, the best biographies of any scientists.. There's a version read by Feynman himself?! Mine was read by Ralph Leighton or Raymond Todd... I might have to buy it again if there's a version by him.

I find the stories to be fun, but it's different hearing it 'as a character' than directly.

I will say audio book is the way to go for that and *What Do You Care What Other People Think?*. They are long. 

I have them in a boxed CD set and together they are 15 CDs. He did also help a woman at Caltech get a degree in physics (women in caltech was pretty much unheard of, in his time), and he encouraged his sister to pursue physics.

Him thinking of the bar girls as bitches was not because he was inherently sexist, but because he was taught that thinking of bar girls that way would get him laid (he really wanted to get laid). Fight me.. I have not heard of such a thing before, why do you say that?. It’s honestly one of my favorite books and I was engaged the whole way, and sad when it was over (so I read the sequel).. It's actually transcribed from interviews with him, not written by him directly, so to me it comes across very much in the spirit of his engaging speaking style.. Thanks!. Thank you! I will check out that other book as well, it's new to me!. Both teeth cannot occupy the same orbital unless they have opposite spin.. Yup, that's the one. In some ways he's like a reverse Atiyah, a physicists who ended up also contributing to mathematics. The paper itself is also surprisingly 'modern' despite almost being a century old. A lot of Dirac's work was actually pretty modern in some respects. One interesting thing was his fascination with extended objects, and he wanted to try explaining the generations of the electron by introducing an extended object called the Dirac membrane and explaining the the electron and muon as the ground state and excited state respectively. This was back in the 60's, over a decade before the 'strings' in string theory became known.. I’ve never read anything of Dirac, but I just took a look at his paper that the wiki article on Dirac strings references, and it is super well written so far. Thanks!. IQ test are definitely not great. However, for all the hate they get; being able to predict about 25% of life success based on reciting numbers backwards and finding pattern..etc, is still very impressive.. Every time I see an *experimental result* without uncertainties I stop listening.

I suspect they have a good correlation with the skill at taking IQ tests, but I just don't know what the hell such numbers are supposed to mean.

They give a certain kind of people major boners though. (Mine were apparently by no means crummy, just in case you think this is sour grapes).. [deleted]. From what we know about him and how the validity of IQ tests seems to rebutted every week, this is probably true.. Sure, having parents that push that stuff early will help a lot, but he wasn't taught the background. He did it all by himself.. I got them as a graduation gift for a future physics major. They’re very good but I wouldn’t recommend them for everyone. I’d imagine that Feynman was a gifted educator.. [deleted]. [deleted]. ‘*American Prometheus*’ about Oppenheimer?. I'm totally wrong! 

not read by himself but sure sounded like it to me years  ago. 

http://audiobookbay.nl/audio-books/surely-youre-joking-mr-feynman-adventures-of-a-curious-character-richard-feynman/. I'm not saying the man only did sexist things ever lol I admire his better qualities. But there's a lot of anecdotal evidence of him treating women pretty poorly. This isn't exceptional or unique. The same shit (sadly) exists with Einstein and Hawking.. It's widely known that he was a womaniser and quite sexist. That's why I worship Feynman the scientist and science communicator rather than Feynman the person.. Literally in "Surely, You're Joking Mr Feynman" he calls women "bitches" for not sleeping with him. Modernism.. I'll have another go at it tonight.  

Also, upvote for your username. Devy was part of my inspiration for looking for the beauty in physics and mathematics.  <3. [The book and more is in this drive btw.](https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B9XbEQh3jB9pMlRwbC11MjZRYk0). It shouldn't. g is simply a positive correlation factor between cognitive tests. IQ tests are how you estimate them. There have been attempts to make a less general g, but everything is so coupled that it's hard to say anything meaningful if you try to go more specific than g.

To be a bit more precise, the most common way to find g is to do the gamut of cognitive tests, use those tests as variables in a PCA, and g is the first factor that pops out of your PCA.

And I don't know exactly where you got the idea that IQ and g don't have uncertainties, but they definitely do.. you are absolutely right. I was a pretty dumb guy before I got a degree in physics, afterwards i’m at dolt level. that is exactly my point. anyone can do it. Well, i guess i can agree to that. There was a lot of drop off in student attendance for his lectures.

However, a lot of modern textbooks separate everything into subjects instead of the cross-discipline approach in the lectures. The derivations in modern textbooks, if they are there, seem like a series of mathematical operations... Feynman, though he is doing math, seem to justify each step by physical reasoning alone.

I guess i'm saying the lectures, especially the 'pieces', do have a method to them that could work for all physics students in my opinion. It's the density of information, and lack of problem sets that make it problematic. 

For someone learning on their own... no time schedule, it seems quite good to me. But maybe that's just me.. Not in response to antics, but as a gentle kind of suggestion that he had made a faux pas. He came from a working class background and wasn't at all ready for the social norms at places like Princeton. So whenever he'd answer a question the wrong way (saying 'both' when asked if he wanted milk or lemon in his tea) someone would say "Surely you're joking, Mr. Feynman.". It was said to him when he was at Princeton and during tea time the head master asked him if he wants lemon or milk with his tea and he said both, to which she answered surely you're joking Mr Feynman. Since, lemon would make the milk curd.. I know what you mean, I have to watch that thing like a hawk, but at least it's not a paperclip.. Yeah, it’s amazing.. Where did you read that? I’ve read Feynman’s chapters about Arline; he treats her as his equal. If you’re going to tell me that Feynman treated women poorly and that he was a sexist pig, I expect some solid evidence.. [deleted]. Wow, fantastic collection of books!. [deleted]. Ah :-). I know! It’s written so well. I read it twice in a row when I first bought it. J. Robert Oppenheimer is a fascinating dude.. Here's an article about it I guess haha why am I doing all this leg work for folks who should be responsibly evaluating their heroes themselves?

https://slate.com/technology/2019/01/richard-feynman-physical-abuse-science-wife-fbi.html. Uh yeah off the top of my head the publicly available and declassified FBI file on him suggests that he assaulted his (then) wife. I know it's roastable but I'm gonna share a tweet with the quote because I'm at work and don't have the book for a page number. It's pretty easy to search to confirm though:
https://twitter.com/KTKeith/status/994935138579636229?s=09. I'm Still Dumb but I'm Less Bad at Math is going to be the title of my memoir. And what the US did to him is actually horrific.. Alright, thanks; I’ll look into it.. Damn that’s very disappointing. Well after reading about what he did in bars I guess I shouldn’t be too surprised. This is why we shouldn’t elevate historical figures beyond a human level. “those bar girls are all bitches, that they aren’t worth anything, and all they’re in there for is to get you to buy them a drink, and they’re not going to give you a goddamn thing; I’m not going to be a gentleman to such worthless bitches” — Richard Feynman. He didn't say anything about it being because they wouldn't have sex with him. He specifically mentioned the phenomena of women being nice and flirteous to get free drinks. The opposite scenario rarely happens. You are implying that he meant sex when he mentioned buying women drinks and not getting anything in return. They often take advantage of socially awkward guys they have no interest in having a conversation with afterwards. I know exactly what he's talking about. And those women are bitches.. Right!? I went into the book only knowing the barebones facts about him. And hearing a lot of personal expression of his ostracism really brings out the human in him. I can’t think of a specific reason he shouldn’t be celebrated as a homegrown, dyed in the wool patriot and tragic genius. Ugh, I can’t say enough good things about it! :). A proposition: the vast majority of men who buy drinks for women at bars who they don't know have specific ulterior intent. Let's be adults here, it's about motivating a relationship, usually sex. For a woman to subvert that expectation for them to put out (sexually or otherwise) is at the worst no less bad, and reasonably justified. For you or anyone else to call those women "bitches" is a sentiment motivated by sexist socialization.. There is a very fine line between "This woman is a bitch because she purposefully tricked me out of some money by faking interest" and "This woman is a bitch because she refused to have sex with me even after I bought her a drink". The latter is a sexist attitude.

In other words, there is a big difference between feeling you've been cheated out of money and feeling you've been cheated out of sex.

Now, I don't know for sure what Feynman's attitudes we're, but based on the vitriol in the above quote, it kinda seems like it might be the latter.. Yep I feel the exact same! The Cold War fucked things at so many different levels.. If you gave a girl your soylent and she walked away, you would be upset too. That shit is expensive.. You are still implying he was talking about sex without knowing if he really was, while justifying calling him a sexist pig with that most guys usually have that ulterior motive at bars. Some women proudly call themselves bitches for taking part in it. It's a subjective choice of vocabulary. I think his choice of words perfectly describes it and there is no basis for Richard Feynman walking around calling all women bitches. He is being specific. He was happily married and had children. The only reason went to strip bars was to study anatomy and develop his illustration skills.  And his drawings were often full of equations. Who the hell does that? There is no record of him saying he's going to the nudiebar to watch some worthless bitches which there probably would be if he truly was a sexist pig. He said exactly what he meant about everything. Implying sexism where it isn't is a problem, especially when the individual is dead and can't defend themselves.. "...I don't know for sure what Feynman's attitudes we're "

"...kinda seems like it might be".

&#x200B;

That's the problem...

Your vague interpretation of a quote does not make something a fact.

&#x200B;

Richard Feynman was a physicist and a scientist. If his peer-reviewed work consisted of any sentences like:

"I don't know for sure what this thing is... but"

"Kinda seems like it might be"... followed by innuendo.

And if he had then made conclusions based on those statements, he would never be hired for the Manhattan Project. He wouldn't be a scientist or a physicist.

Objectivity can be applied to anything. And right here it appears to be completely non-existent.

That's what's missing here. Objectivity. The absense of bias and prejudice.

And that would be admitting that you don't know for a fact what he meant because that information which would confirm it doesn't exist.

Confirmation bias might work in a courtroom as the goal isn't about finding the truth to find out if a person is actually guilty of a crime, but making something sound like the truth.. Lol Soylent is nasty dude what? 😂 And it's not that I'm giving her the Soylent right, it's why? You can't honestly think (unless you're naive) that men who give drinks to women at bars are doing so just to be chummy right? For the vast majority of men, that's just not true. It doesn't matter if he's talking about sex or not lol. See my responses in this thread for clarity. Lol do you honestly believe he went to strip clubs for that reason? 😂 So naive, dude. He could've opened thousands of books for the same anatomical study. Hell, any of Davincis notebooks would have done just fine. His actions and interactions with others speak for themselves. I'm saying that in the exact context in which he says "bitches", it is sexist.. Dude. He was not happily married. There's court documents that he physically assaulted his wife. 

He never got over Arlene. It's tragic for him and every other woman he encountered. He was kinda a piece of $hit. I'm saying this as a physicist (yes with a PhD) who loves him. But, don't be stupid enough to defend human frailty. 

And just so YOU know. When you choose to give someone something, whether a drink or not, that person owes you nothing unless there was some previous agreement. Feynman's statements reak of entitlement and privilege. 

He was a man, take him for all in all.... Women are aware of that. That's why many of them go to bars with no intention of paying or being conversational. Basically just freeloading.. for that matter, he could've also just drawn his wife lmao. I knew you would say that about strip clubs because you are just looking for supporting arguments. I've read all your responses so I'm pretty clear. You ignore what you don't agree with and continue with what you can use. Subjective through and through. Ah yes, Da Vinci, who studied naked dead people. He must have been a raging necrophile according to your logic. A great study of how to draw dead people, bringing that touch of "life" to your drawings. That's what artists do when studying anatomy. They look for DaVinci's drawings of dead people...

*You* are saying the word is sexist, because it is *your* subjective opinion about the word. There may be many who agree, but other people use the same word and don't regard it as sexist(which is why I used the example of women calling themselves bitches). Does your subjective opinion of a word mean that Richard Feynman's entire history is somehow besmerched by sexism because he used it a couple of times?

In your subjective opinion, yes.

Any objective biographies about his life, no.

The only difference between you calling the lady at Starbucks a "bitch" under your breath for getting your order wrong and having an attitude about it, and Richard Feynman's statement is that he was being recorded and not afraid of saying what he feels. Are you going to deny calling women bitches behind their backs or even in your head for shitty reasons?

Good luck with that.

Your "evidence" is a link to a tweet and you left out the entire story about the scenario in bars, which I had to mention, and I said it was about women who take advantage of guys, which you totally ignored and instead made a reference to what the point of guys going to bars are, which often is sex. 

Women go there to flirt with guys to take advantage of them to get free drinks: Bitches.

Guys who only go to bars to try to get laid: Assholes

One of these statements grants the label "sexist pig" ***for life*** according to you.

You made a pretty serious allegation based on lacking evidence, and told people to "look it up". What are people going to do? Do a bunch of searches to google saying "Richard Feynman sexist". That is surely an objective and source critical way of deciding someone's character...

You refer to a statement in a single interview, words which you took out of context and now you're talking about "his actions and interactions speak for themselves." Wow, they just got plural. This guy must have been screaming bitches at the top of his lungs!

Nobody talks about Richard Feynman and say, "oh you mean that sexist pig?"

Luckily it's just you and your small group of subjectively motivated imbeciles.

Hey, let's add another one.

*"Science works... bitches" -Richard Dawkins.*

Source:  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eob371ZgGoY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eob371ZgGoY) 

Another sexist pig confirmed according to the authoritative source of a... percival404.

Bitch, please.

Oh no! THIS MUST MEAN...

Luckily I am in good company according to percival404.. Did you make a new user to make this comment in a buried thread?

1 comment karma.

Yes, you did.

And upvoted yourself using the other user?

Strike of genius.

I don't know who you are, but it's not helping.. Not all our heroes are gods, and most we would be sorely disappointed to meet. It's a bitter truth.. Ahhh so women are aware of that, and you are aware of that. So why should you be disappointed when a woman doesn't fill YOUR expectations for her? If everyone is in on the game, why still do men pout and call people "bitches" when they don't get what they want? It's not freeloading, because they're not taking something that was yours. You're willingly giving something to them and taking the risk that yeah, you might be getting played. Is it the cleanest social exchange? No, absolutely not. But I would also never go so far as to throw a hissy fit in my memoirs and categorically call those women "bitches" in the obtuse and sexist manner that Richard Feynman did.. Also I wanna say I'm OBVIOUSLY not condoning Davinci digging up corpses for anatomical study 😂. I said several times that the word used in this context is, not in all contexts, such as some of the ones you've provided ☺️ look, I don't need to write a feminist thesis just for a comment on Reddit. The link, as I explained, was shorthand. Anyone on here can find obvious and accessible evidence for both sides of R. Feynman's character. I don't look the other way when I see his achievements or kindnesses, but for some reason many physicists like to look the other way when their heroes are shown to be human, or even worse, just not as good as we thought. This alienates women in our field, and is inexcusable. You seem to be taking this very personally, or that I've tried to mislead the conversation somehow. I don't think I've been selective in my responses at all, but if you feel like there's something unclear about my stance towards Feynman or some of the issues that you or others have brought up, I'd be happy to talk about them! Take a deep breath.. I don't go ti bars to pick up women. Im just expressing sentiment for his opinion on the matter.. Well I find it weird you took yourself the time to provide the quote, later on, outside of this now buried thread in the hopes that someone would see it and start this all over again.

Are we looking for attention?

I only have a problem with you short-handedly saying this guy is a sexist pig, based on remarks he made in a single interview because he used the word bitches, and that you didn't provide sufficient evidence to support that claim. This is why people asked, what did you mean that he's a sexist pig?

You've read something on twitter, made a conclusion based on that tweet, and started sharing it as fact, initially providing even less information than the tweet contained, now you are the one having to defend the statement in the context you implied by calling him a sexist pig.

This is your doing!

And ending your comments with passive aggressive remarks like asking me to take a deep breath, after saying you'd be happy to talk about the debacle you started is an invitation to a reddit argument.

Forget it.. Well cool, I'm not calling you a sexist, I'm calling Richard Feynman one. And even then, I don't care if people go to bars to pick up women, that's not the problem. It's the attitude of Mr. Feynman (and the "bitches" sentiment you expressed earlier) that I'm condemning. I know I'm fighting a losing battle in this sub, but I've seen physics departments at universities, I've been in one. They often have an unhealthy boy's club culture where genuine prejudice happens to the women in those departments on the regular. If you or anyone else in this sub thinks that not talking about the sexism rampant in this fields past is good for the progress of innovation, of society, of research, of theory, of physics, then surely you're joking, Mr. Miyelsh.. You'll find elsewhere I cited a publicly available FBI report which suggests that he assaulted his (then) wife. I posted the full quote, which I had heard elsewhere (you know, like in his book 😂) because I knew some people were dissatisfied with the link. This isn't news, I didn't just discover this and make a reactionary comment, it's all very public, often made so by Feynman himself.. I see your point completely. Im a bit disconnected from the field because my undergrad is in engineering. I'll take your word and try to be a bit more considerate of what you brought up in the future. Cheers.. I just want to point out that a completely new user with no previous comment history by the name of 1\_z0mbie is suddenly adding to what you're saying in this buried thread.

&#x200B;

Ah, yes the article that *suggests* he assaulted his then wife..

A Slate article which refers to an FBI document, which refers *another* article about his divorce, where one of the claims were that he ignored his wife, doing math all times of the day, and if disturbed could get in a violent rage and throw stuff around and allegedly choking her.

These are standard divorce claims for people going through an ugly divorce. The fact that it ended in a settlement shows that there couldn't have been sufficient evidence behind that allegation or Feynman would have been prosecuted for domestic violence. That charge is non-existent. We know the FBI was thourough, as the investigation regarded his potential position on the President's Science Advisory Comittee(PSAC), and the document is over 360 pages long. It was a background check for a very important position. Basically, THE best job offer you're ever going to get as a physicist. And she clearly didn't love him anymore, as the evident divorce clearly indicates.

&#x200B;

Edit: I'm sorry for thinking you were a female writer for Slate magazine.. I appreciate that deeply, thank you! Good luck in undergrad!! It's a wonderful time 😊. 😂😂😂 no, I'm not the author of any articles that I've shared on here, nor do I know of the author in question. I'm a man, and this really had nothing to do with the #MeToo movement at all. But fella, look at yourself. You don't know me, so you've projected the image of the author onto me just so you could perform a character assassination. Look, I'm quite proud that I've shared some of the information I've shared here. It'll be here for people to perhaps find, and that's cool with me. You can DM me if you want to continue the conversation for clarification of my perspective or your own.. If I was wrong it's okay. Intuitions can be wrong.

The writer is still selective with information from someone's FBI background check, not an investigation into possible domestic violence, which was only included in a reference to an article about his divorce where his wife claimed she was choked, to support the writer's claims, and you claim that's all you need to call him a sexist pig.

I've stated my opinion on the word "bitches".

Again I didn't start this.

I was having a nice day.

I just found it suspicious that you quoted the article directly before it was even brought up, never linked, just passively linked a quote in a tweet wtf. Double pendulums are known for their chaos, BUT..... nan. Heylo there! I had posted this before but it was removed by a mod because I hadn't given any explanation regarding it and it was just a video, that's it. So here I am again : )

So anyways, double pendulums are known for their chaos at higher energy, but at lower energy and oscillations they they produce these beautiful figures called Lissajous figures (You might have seen em in a "sand dripping pendulum"). Here is one, it looked really beautiful so I decided to post it here : )

 This behaves like a linear system because of the tiny oscillation : ) No  room for chaos i guess, I have another another video of the chaotic  one, but for some reason I see order in chaos in the graph after a long  time. [Here is the link to the chaotic one .](https://imgur.com/mSsAP5v)

I'm also making a 3 pendulum simulation and will post it when I'm done.

And if you wanna make our own then you need is some good knowledge in python and some patience (Math and physics of course lol) : ), check out [trinket.io](https://trinket.io), it's really cool and helpful.

[This](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/336868500_Equations_of_Motion_Formulation_of_a_Pendulum_Containing_N-point_Masses) paper I found online is pretty cool and helpful, do check it out.Let me know what you thing : ). Someone correct me if I am wrong but this looks aesthetically pleasing because it’s still being swung from a small angle. If you chose a starting angle greater than let’s say 45deg then it would not be as elegant.. It's a Twix. Phase space projections are great. My favorite chaotic attractor, a simple model for convection coils in the air. People may recognize a butterfly in there:  
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorenz\_system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorenz_system). If you make the ratio of the frequencies of the pendulum an irrational number, they will cover the entire box completely if you integrate for long enough. This would be an ergodic trajectory. The same idea is used to create magnetic flux surfaces in tokamaks and stellarators.. /r/gifsthatendtoosoon. Well Chaos doesnt mean disorder, it just means analytically unpredictable.. Honestly when I read the title and saw the video I had a completely different approach to this until after I read the comments, anyways what I got in mind was about the nature of universal entropy and how it creates disorder to later form order. It’s honestly interesting how combining these two interpretations makes it the very example of butterfly effect as in slightest change in motion in the beginning would lead to vast differences in results.. The plot seems to still be space-filling. Is this a symptom of ergodicity? Or am I mistaken?. This looks a lot like a composite filament winding process. Aka, not chaotic and totally predictable by mathematical model. H. Faria, K. Guo, and many others have papers out with the equations.

Normally they apply to wrapping reinforcing fibers around some constant cross section mandrel, like a cylinder, but tracing the plot in 2d looks pretty much like what you have here.

Weird.. This is art.. Now from what I understand about dynamical systems. Is that although they will always be unpredictable it will be within a certain range, so the total range of the probabilistic nature will turn into a really neat looking graph showcasing all possible outcomes. So like if you took a simulation of one graph its space it may never land in the same place twice but will always be within a certain range.. It's gone plaid!. What were the attractor points for the chaotic ones?. In general dynamical systems (including the double pendulum), phase space can include regions of both chaos and quasi-periodic motion. At low energies, the double pendulum is like an integrable system. It starts to display chaotic behavior at higher energies, but the phase space is not just totally chaotic. Instead, there are regions that retain their quasi-periodic solutions ("islands" of regularity) in a sea of chaos. This is most clearly seen with a tool called the Poincare surface of section. Here's an interactive tool I built to let you explore the Poincare sections of the double pendulum: https://duetosymmetry.com/tool/poincare-section-clicker-toy/. Here's a [good site](https://www.myphysicslab.com/pendulum/double-pendulum-en.html) for anybody interested in playing with a double pendulum yourself.. Do these patterns arise with all double pendulums (at small angles), or do the lengths of the two sections have to be equal? Or an integer multiple of some common unit (eg. 6cm-9cm or 2cm-6cm)?. But chaos can still be kinda pretty!. I wish, when I was a kid, my teachers showed me how beautiful math could be.. It looks like a Lissajous curve.. Applied math is crazy. [removed]. Small-amplitude double pendulum oscillations can be decomposed into two modes, coupled double harmonic oscillator, symmetric and anti-symmetric. Nonlinear perturbations because pendulum is nonlinear remove the perfect harmonicity. This video seems to show mostly the symmetric mode. There is always a method to the madness.. Is the shape of the rectangle somehow bounded by the energy of the system?. Would you mind posting the source code?. You couldn't just let the video record for a little bit longer, couldn't you?. What do the X and Y axes on the graph represent?. Nice job. I recently also did a double pendulum simulation using trinket.io . I did it doing two different methods, first was from a Lagrangian approach, second was a vector approach, approximating each Pendulum as a very tight spring (k = 1e5) . Both methods were cool but the vector spring method would’ve been easier to expand to triple pendulum, quadruple etc. I solved them both using Euler-cromer. I can link if anyone’s interested. 

What method did you use to obtain the equations of motion? And what numerical solution method?. The [KAM Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kolmogorov%E2%80%93Arnold%E2%80%93Moser_theorem#Perturbations) is relevant here.. Plaid. It'd be interesting to see if there are some rules to the patterns, like the distance between the two pendulums positively correlating to the width of that shape.. u/savevideo. Lissajous curvess!. That's pretty cool!. small angle approximation "removes" the chaos of the double pendulum. It's a beautiful simulation and I'd like to see it with much bigger initial angle. Superb. Even I made a double pendulum sim a while back. I'm currently working on a code for the general case of n pendulums. Would love to see your triple pendulum sim :D. This is like those gear things you use with a pen and it makes these cool shapes. It looks like an oscilloscope before you get the time scale and trigger correct.. They've gone to plaid!. All I can see is a nicely woven tablecloth. Resistance be like , 🙄. Sensitive dependence to initial conditions.. That's cool how did you generate this? I want to see what its like to have 3 bodies.  I believe this might also be related to the idea that there are periodic solutions to dynamical systems, like in the Lorenz Equations it's possible:

[https://blogs.mathworks.com/cleve/2014/04/28/periodic-solutions-to-the-lorenz-equations/](https://blogs.mathworks.com/cleve/2014/04/28/periodic-solutions-to-the-lorenz-equations/)

Maybe someone with more expertise can confirm or refute this relation.. Handlebar gripsss. There's a fine line between bob and chaos. Sweeet.

There's always order in there somewhere.

Thank you.  I feel better now.. But how is this chaos if you can predict what will happen to a precise degree? Maybe I missed a point, but I don’t see how this isn’t order. Please correct me if I’m wrong.. That green shit looks like a sausage roll. I always find it so interesting when long term chaos shows a pattern! Thinking about the numberphile video where the random directional jumps end up drawing a leaf pattern. Or repetitions and calm periods in the bifurcating route to chaos.. What app do you use for simulations?. This all depends on the initial conditions, [here](https://youtu.be/32HUK5iiBYA) I've done the animation of 100k double ones with slightly changed initial condition of the position of the second mass. See how those positions (probably could be better seen in phase space) deviate after some time. One could call it the butterfly effect. 
In your case it seems you have only one pendulum, this is you don't really observe any chaotic deviations.. That hurted my eyes 👀. > but for some reason I see order in chaos in the graph after a long time.

My laymen's understanding of "chaos theory" was that it's all about finding order within situations that were typically dismissed as chaotic and patternless. Like, the Lorenz attractor's eventual location is nearly impossible to predict, but I'm the long run it always makes that pretty butterfly shape, so even though it's specific location at any given moment is difficult to nail down, there is a pattern that can be predicted.. I recommend anyone interested in this to take a look at the [Double Pendulum Fractal](https://ibb.co/cgQD6RC). It indicates for what initial conditions the double pendulum is chaotic. 

In the [image linked](https://ibb.co/cgQD6RC) the fractal colors represent the time the double pendulum needs to flip over as a function of initial conditions. 

Green colour represents less time and white colour if it never happens. This simulation is of course in the white region!. > I'm also making a 3 pendulum simulation and will post it when I'm done.

If you can read some JavaScript, feel free to steal the code I wrote for an [n-pendulum simulator](https://bl.ocks.org/travisdoesmath/1206c28b72589d7269b670df05730705). Is there a specific point or threshold when these designs wouldn’t be made beautifully anymore? At what energy would the Lissajous figures become obscured by randomness or noise?. Thanks for the links!

> No room for chaos i guess, I have another another video of the chaotic one, but for some reason I see order in chaos in the graph after a long time.

I do too, but only `(x, y) = (-x, -y)` which I guess makes sense since the axes represent angles from the vertical and there is a left-right symmetry in the setup.. You're not imagining the order in the chaotic one;  sorting that kind of thing out is one of the things human brains are best at, especially the visual system.  The order's always there, sometimes it's just the difference between Mary had a Little Lamb and Bach or Mozart.  

At age five, MHaLL is sophisticated, and Bach might not even be recognized as music.. [removed]. Can you do a heatmap of the chaotic one over an extremely long period of time please?. I was asking myself is this a real property of double pendulums? Or is this due to computers not being truly, but instead pseudorandom? How can you accurately simulate chaos, if your pc itself can't to true chaos?

Either way, looks fucking sick

Edit: literally after posting I realized the randomness is "calculatable", the starting conditions are the reason why double pendulums behave chaotic, right? Because we cannot accurately predict them but if we could, we could calculate the pendulums, correct?. Exactly!!! Due to the small oscillation it behaved like a linear system, and not necessarily 45 degrees, from what I learned, it depends on the masses of the bobs too, the pendulum will be more stable if the mass of the tip bob is more than the one in the middle, but for this simulation I took everything(from masses to lengths) as unity. And by the way the chaotic one looks damn beautiful too, ofcourse after a long time...
Check this out- https://imgur.com/mSsAP5v. If you haven't bought the Brand DLC for English, you can use the free word "rectangle".. What do you mean?. What do you mean?. Clearly a left Twix.. God I love differential equations. Ah lol yes, the butterfly effect! In my opinion this could be the best example for the butterfly effect, at higher energies even a small change in the initial state of the pendulum will result in something totally different!. Well even I thought it was ergodic but take a look at [this](https://imgur.com/9Dk0hAe), but in the video it did seem ergodic. I guess it depends on the initial state of the pendulum!. Lmao!! I was thinking about the exact same thing!!! But of course I had no idea what those classy words meant or what the process it called. I thought that if I took a thin string and started winding it over a candy bar (of similar shape) as accurately as possible then I'd end up with something similar to this, infact I've noticed a similar pattern on the thread spools!!!. Immediate thought. Drats to you, you got here first!. Lol yeah, here is the graph of the chaotic one, ain't it beautiful?  
[https://imgur.com/mSsAP5v](https://imgur.com/mSsAP5v). ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/kt3avd/double_pendulums_are_known_for_their_chaos_but/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo)&#32;|&#32;[**Donate**](https://ko-fi.com/getvideo). Chaos refers to how small variations in the initial condition leads to wildly different results down the line. If you don't know the exact initial values down the very last decimal digit, the small differences add up over time and at any given point in time distant enough from the beginning, you can't predict what the result really will be.. Yes. Another way to view chaotic functions is that they are functions where small changes to the input variables can result in drastic differences in output.. Yes, the "chaotic" part of chaos theory is that the dynamics are deterministic but the predictability over long time horizons is proportional to the accuracy of the measurement of the initial conditions (more accurate measurement -> more accurate predictions).. First of all, the order's always there;  it's like finding the signal in the noise.

Secondly, the brain's good at that pattern thing, especially the visual system.  I had to stop looking at zoom-ins of the Mandelbrot set for a while because after a bit all I could see were rasta turkey heads everywhere.

And I imagine the term Butterfly Effect stuck so well because of both the power of the metaphor / example, AND that butterfly resemblance of the Lorenz attractor.

I wanna say Lorentz, but that's contraction, and Special Relativity.. its that because our brains are pattern finding machines?  It was an evolutionary necessity to be able to detect pattern in nature, for threats and food.  As a result we see patterns EVERYWHERE even in random data.  Just look at anyone who sees jesus in a piece of toast or whatever. That's correct. Also most chaotic systems have a fractal structure that's always quite fascinating.. Is this generated by running a simulated double pendulum for every point? What do the details look like at the edges of the stable zone? Especially the two Mandelbrot like intrusions.. Omg!!! I was actually trying to make one, but after I realized that the equations for 3 pendulum is damn complicated I gave up on the idea of going higher and decided to give the 2 pendulum 2 extra degrees of freedom, into and out of the screen. Thanks a lot!!!. Oh hey! I saw your n pendulum simulation, it's just WOW, I am trying to make a 3 pendulum one but things get long and messy while deriving the equations, and another thing is here I have plotted the angles of the pendulum on the axes, but how to analyze pendulums with more than 2 bobs? Ok for 3 let's take the z axis into consideration, but what about greater than that?. this is so good!. [deleted]. .
>**I think chaos has more to do with missing information than it does with unpredictability.** 


This is wrong. Chaos means very sensitive dependence to initial conditions. Slightly different initial conditions give you vastly different time evolution after short time.. >Due to the small oscillation it behaved like a linear system

Interesting! Does that mean that if we let the simulation run for a very long time, the imperfection of [small angle assumption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Small-angle_approximation) would eventually cause the system to exhibit some visibly nonlinear behavior? Like, maybe the [Twix](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/kt3avd/double_pendulums_are_known_for_their_chaos_but/gijp2nw?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) would start to grow or rotate or something?. Is there any correlation between the angle a double pendulum is swung at and the R value in the logistic function (I.e. chaos sets in at r = 3.56995, is there a corresponding angle for a double pendulum?).. Dude I was asked this in a question in an exam just 3 hours ago lol.. Actually it has nothing to do with small angles. It depends on the exact initial state. Chaotic behaviour only means that the tiniest deviation in the beginning can result in a totally different outcome. However in a chaotic system it's totally possible that certain initial states result in some nice and predictable pattern, which has nothing to to with some approximations. In fact approximations in chaotic systems are (in most cases) not that straightforward as even small differences can have a huge impact.. They said 45 degrees because that’s the threshold for small angle pendulum predictions.. My credit card number is the decimal form of the hexdecimal form of Twix (c). I think they are referring to the shape of [this](https://jcandy-weblinc.netdna-ssl.com/product_images/mr323207-twix-caramel-fun-size-20-62oz/5bbb5f9a6a6361054e012dc0/detail.jpg?c=1539006362) candy bar called Twix. The graph is a Twix. When I get back to a real computer, I'll link to the papers I mentioned.. Nice, if I blur my eyes there I see a kind of tilted "handwritten x shape". Is it expected or is it just a chaotic coincidence ?. Yeah, from what I recall from my undergrad this is the defining feature of mathematical chaos - extreme sensitivity to small changes in the initial conditions.. My favorite implication of chaotic dynamics:  completely deterministic, yet never completely predictable.  No such thing as perfect measurement, and, regardless, just how long are you gonna run your simulation, anyway?. Sounds more like philosophy. Again, I'm totally out of my league here, but we are talking about a branch of science. Models in science have the goal of trying to predict physical phenomena. I imagine if your model is predicting Jesus in a piece of toast, that's not exactly a good model.. Jesus in a piece of toast is a false positive.

Chaotic dynamics and fractal geometry are not.

That's the difference.. And sooo freakin beautiful.

Mandelbrot set: the rasta cardioid.  Dreads, mon, dreads!. [deleted]. Yes! For every possible initial angle, being theta1 the horizontal axis, and theta2 the vertical axis.

If you zoom at the edges, you'll never be going to see a smooth frontier, just like the Mandelbrot set!. It depends on what you want to visualize. You'll probably want to start making multiple plots, or perhaps overlaying plots with different colors.. If you wanna draw the trajectory of a single point, 3D, 3 coordinates, is the most you can do while allowing for most humans to still understand it intuitively.

Though, you can use color for representing up to 3 additional coordinates;  for 4 values, you could add the 4th coordinate as the hue of the plotted line, using the HSV color model (hue is specially useful for values that loop around, since when you reach max hue you're back at red where you started); for 5 and 6 coordinates, you could instead treat the 3 additional coordinates above the third as RGB values (no built-in looping functionality here though).


Representing more than 3 coordinates spatially without discarding positions like is done in the slicing approach gets very tricky, and it tends to not be very intuitive. I'm not too clear on the math involved; but one method is based on the idea of projecting a 4D shadow onto 3D space, essentially mapping the original 4D coordinates into 3D (which then gets further projected into 2D to be displayed on the screen); for this you can to some extent avoid discarding points by making everything semi-transparent so that where there are more simultaneous points you get more opacity, sorta like an X-ray, or you can just use conventional occlusion and hide stuff that is behind other stuff. One such approach is [Urticator's 4D Maze game](http://www.urticator.net/maze/), you can find some explanation and source code over there, I haven't managed to get around studying it with much depth yet. I think the principle may be extrapolated to more than 4D, but I'm not sure whether you would be going down-projecting one dimension at a time, or it's always done directly to 3D without intermediaries.. Apologies, I just assumed we all already knew the basics. 

Question for you: We know order to be about symmetry. So, I am curious to know how you think geometry is disconnected? How can symmetry of anything be determined without geometry?. Of course, it is "wrong", it is my hypothesis and I gave a reason for it. Did you have a question?

We all already *know* what the accepted definition(s) for a chaotic system are. Repeating it just means that was the only part of my post you understood. Its a good start but people come here to see, hear and gain a deeper and hopefully more intutive understanding for how emerging feilds might impact future physics. 

Also, the more rigid definition of chaos includes more than just sensitivity to initional conditions. There are topological properties along with orbit density to consider. Density is what I talked about above. Of course this is still an emerging feild so it isn't well defined to begin with.. It's not to do with the small angle theorem specifically. Many chaotic systems have regimes where they behave normally, only transitioning to chaotic motion after some key value. Bifurcation diagrams are a famous example of this. We actually have partial bifurcation diagrams for double pendulums, and they're [*super* ugly](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/mpe/2014/892793/).. Umm no, it'd still be linear imo.. Yeah, it will, but not very interesting nonlinear behaviour, as it won't  be chaotic. Even the dynamics of single pendulum is described by a nonlinear by differential equation, as the force depends on the sin(theta), and can be approximated by sin(theta)≈theta. The solution of the full single pendulum equation won't be a perfect sine, but a sum of sines including it's higher harmonics. So the important to remember is, nonlinear behaviour does not automatically mean chaotic behaviour.. The boundaries of the rectangle should be set by energy requirements limiting the maximal angle that either bob can take, so it shouldn't change. The trajectory within it is likely not quite periodic though: if you tried to set them up in a harmonic motion with a very low multiple, which would lead to a very simple pattern in the linear case you might instead get a slower energy transfer between them that leads the trajectory to not quite close up and to slowly drift over time.. Oh aight : ). Oh yeah : ). Suree thanks a lot : ). This should give you enough diffy q's to be dangerous.    


[https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/20550340.2018.1500099](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/20550340.2018.1500099). Chaotic systems will sometimes spend extra time near unstable periodic trajectories, and their chaotic behaviour can often be expanded in terms of the "skeleton" of increasingly complex and fragile ones. If each branch of the X shows one of the shortest such cycles then we might expect a long-time density plot to show a clear raised ridge along that curve.. Yes -- formally defined as the study of dynamical systems with Lyapunov exponent greater than zero.. Plus a couple other requirements. But that is the defining feature. Source: I do nonlinear dynamics. Did you have a book for that you liked? I have a masters in math, but I never studied mathematical chaos - it just wasn't offered in my school. :/ Anyway, I'd love to check it out though.. Oh, I don't know... maybe fourteen billion years or so.... I agree with you but this isn't philosophy. Philosophers discuss things like the goal and delimitations of science, actual interesting stuff. Not jesus in a piece of toast.. By detail I mean zooming in on the edge of the white area and seeing whether it forms fractal patterns like a Mandelbrot set.. It's much more simple! The plot is just the time the pendulum needs to flip over for or every possible initial angle, being theta1 the horizontal axis, and theta2 the vertical axis.. >Of course, it is "wrong", it is my hypothesis and I gave a reason for it. Did you have a question?

This is a physics subreddit and requires comments to be accurate and doesn't allow comments with false claims. Your post is the latter, a comment with claims that are known to be false. I've reported it for that reason and gave called it out here  and mods have removed it.

Chaos has a defined meaning and you have a wrong account of what Chaos is. 

> Its a good start but people come here to see, hear and gain a deeper and hopefully more intutive understanding for how emerging feilds might impact future physics. 

Your comment is just misinforming them and worsening their understanding, certainly not giving deeper insight.. Oh god. Those look more like graphical glitches than phase spaces. Horrifying.. Neat, thanks for the answer !. What are the other requirements? I'm going to check out a book someone else mentioned here, but would love to hear the basic requirements if you have time to share.. Strogatz's Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos is a classic, written at ~advanced undergrad level.. I'm sure philosophy of science is pretty fascinating. I was being tongue in cheek with that philosophy comment. I realize it's kinda shitty for me to use "philosophy" as a stand in for "fluffy woo-woo" and I'm glad you're defending the honor of philosophy!. Sensitive to initial conditions (small perturbations in initial conditions lead to wildly different trajectories). Topologically trasative and dense periodic orbits.

Note the second two are math definitions not easily explained in plain English.. Awesome, thanks! I'll check it out.. Hey, no problem. And you're right, philosophy is a passion of mine and i get upset with this image most people have of it.. Pretty sure you mean transitive.. I have a math degree. Though since I haven't studied those things in particular this just means I have a sliver of hope that I can look up those terms and eventually understand them. Actually, maybe without the degree I would have more hope.... Also try "The Beauty of Fractals".  Don't remember who wrote it, but the publisher's Springer-Verlag, a German company.

Favorite line:  As period-doubling rates pass 257%, *chaos sets in.*  

STILL makes the hair stand up on the back of my neck like Beethoven.

And gorgeous pictures, including repros of initial IBM graph ffom Benoit Mandelbrot's initial work.  Best part for me, since I no do math so good.. >i get upset with this image most people have of it.

Understandable, I would too. I will think before saying things that propagate this image in the future.. Haha, sounds fun, I'll take a gander.. You won't be sorry.  While reading it, I wondered if the authors' tendency to speak of the zones of different attractors as conflicting territories was a subtle artifact of German cultural history.  They were warring tribes before they became a nation.  An oversimplification, of course, but I'd never encountered math being referred to in terms of conflict before. Edward M. Purcell’s Sheet of Useful Numbers. nan. Modern day theorist; set c=h=... 1. From when is this and why does he write newt, gm, mole, watt, dyne, sec etc.? I mean, if he uses cgs, that's fine, but most of his units are weird. Also the lower case v in MeV triggers me.. c in cm/s? Wtf. Non-physicist here. Why is everything in cm instead of m? Seems like it just makes the scientific notation slightly more complex than necessary. [deleted]. Since it's Purcell, I'd say that 911 is also up there as a pretty useful number.. Purcell?  Of course it's in f***ing CGS.. Very handy. Will print this and take it with me in case I'm at the supermarket and forgot how much the Campton wavelength was.. His electrodynamics textbook was great.. He forgot about 8, I use that one all the time. Are we gonna ignore that amazing handwriting.. If you need to remember the Steffan-Boltzmann constant, it's 5-6-7-8.

5.67x10^-8 W/m^2 /K^4. Don't forget the Law of Grambling. 1 of paper = 4 of coin.. Some of us call these “God’s units”. (Not saying anything about whether God exists to all of us.) Also a bit sad when Purcell’s classic E&M book came out in SI units. As a theorist, I liked God’s units much better. In E& M unlike mechanics, it makes a difference ... more than powers of 10. Sigh!. It’s amazing looking at this and realizing how important air pressure is. This looks like every equation sheet I crammed the semester's notes onto for a big test.. None of these are numbers. One day I’ll be able to understand this. İ have no idea all of this means but i will learn. I don't know what it means but I like it. I have a first edition of Purcell’s calculus textbook and it’s the best damn math book I’ve ever read. This looks like my cheat sheet just before I take a test lol. Did you take Ph101 at caltech by any chance. Reminds me of cheatsheets in my calculators. engineers: if it's a constant then it can be approximated to 1

h = pi = c = e = 1. newt. Saving this for... *research* purposes. Dude is measuring the radius of universe as cm. It's weird he chose cm instead of m.. You have such pleasing handwriting.. boltzman constant?. Well, 2 can be as bad as 1, it's the loneliest number since the number 1. “[dyne]? What the hell is a [dyne]?”. Now I know that the radius of the observable universe is 10^28cm 😎. His book on electricity and magnetism is really slick. Clearly Edward had a thing for Centimetre's.Centimetres.. This is a language I can't read lol.. Not one phone number :(. I wish so bad that I can understand these equations. Oh shit , we use the MKS system. I wish I understood this.. Anyone else notice his initials are EMP?  Boom!. Reminds me of my formula sheets in college. Thank you!. Does anyone have this sheet in S.I International standard units?. Set h = c = k = G = hbar = 1, the small circle approximation. While I found it weird at first, I think a person like me who consistently drops factors really appreciates setting constants to unity.

Instead of dropping them mid calculation, far better to just forget them entirely!. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Mills_Purcell - Idk much about him other than he won the Nobel Prize in the 50s. My instructor for a course called “Order of Magnitude Physics” gave us this sheet for reference since the class is all about estimation/dimensional analysis. Edit: it says 1981 on the bottom right lmao. Isn't newt, as in Newton Meter? I can't make sense of any of the rest of it. I didn't get into physics.. And yet, you can work out what each unit is easily - given just how many different unit systems are on this page, being more explicit and not relying on abbreviation conventions seems a big plus.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

(Plus, some of those abbreviations like "sec" for second are actually quite common nowadays as well. One letter abbreviations just don't lend themselves well to unambiguity.). Lmao I know this guy because he wrote the classic E&M book that every physics Olympiad knows (And the other classic E&M by Griffith said specifically that he learn practically all his E&M knowledge from Purcell in the preface - no joke!). Distance to the center of the galaxy in cm as well.. Cgs is used most of the time in astrophysics still. (Ex-)physicist here. Purcell was old school. There were two prevailing sets of units used by physicists in the 20th century: "cgs" centimeter-gram-second, and "MKS" meter-kilogram-second. There's actually another issue underlying the schism about the factors involved in Maxwell's equations, which tends to make them look simpler when written in the way favored by the people who tended to choose cgs.

SI standardizing on MKS is a late development, and even "SI units" wasn't actually a thing until 1960 (which is after he won the Nobel prize, not to mention when he started his research career). My feeling is that MKS was something pushed more by engineers and not by people doing basic physics research. If you learned physics learning cgs, the actual advantages of MKS are small and you stick with what you know, maybe converting for publication once the APS style guide started frowning on non-SI.

Eventually, enough physicists started taking Introductory Physics courses where the textbooks said "we use the SI units" that MKS got more and more popular. In my day, the "cgs" folks seemed kind of old school, along with people who used "wavenumber" to describe infrared spectra. I suspect that "cgs" is even less popular now that people my age are tenured faculty and people are getting Ph.D.s who were not even born while Purcell was alive.. I assume only if you are trying to make extremely precise calculations of the energy density in a given region of space. It has the same units as the Cosmic Microwave Background, but they are probably orders of magnitude different in terms of numerical value.. It's a handy baseline near the lower limit of human vision, so any time the question "is it bright enough to see?" comes up.

There was a question where this would have been useful over on /r/AskPhysics just last week: https://www.reddit.com/r/AskPhysics/comments/m0wyhw/if_i_were_floating_in_space_moving_away_from_the/. One example is the thermal emission from interstellar dust grains. Dust is mainly heated by starlight, so this sets the equilibrium temperature.. Mind explaining to u/Detectorbloke why that’s the case? 😂. CGS is amazing for simplifying the equations in EM course, but at least if choose one, stick with it. This cheat sheet uses some abomination of unit mixture instead.. And *Slevin*. Probably the only class I can honestly say I had a good time in.  OOM is great. I’m about to take it this term haha (starts next week). This is more what a physicist would do.. pi = e = sqrt(g) = 6\*𝛾 = 2\*φ= 3. h = hbar
Pi = 1/2
QED. Ah, I recall a talk that started with pi = i = 1. Has science gone too far?. I wrote a parody of "And all shall equal be" from the Gondoliers (by Gilbert and Sullivan) about this type of attitude:

>Take Newton's gravitation G,  
>  
>And light-speed's universal c,   
>  
>Fine structure alpha we decree,   
>  
>They all shall equal be!  
>  
>  
>  
>Pi of circle constant fame,   
>  
>And h and h-bar made the same,   
>  
>And i and phi we all proclaim,  
>  
>They all shall equal be!. Yeh but I feel keeping track of the units in that case can often become a bit of a pain. Order of Magnitude Physics sounds interesting! Tell me more if ya don’t mind.. Right, I didn't see that, lol

Also, that sounds like a cool course, but why cgs though?. This wasn't at Caltech, was it?  I really enjoyed a class there with the same name back in the mid-'90s.  For example, estimating "how high can an animal jump?".  On the small scale, air resistance constrains it (jumping fleas rapidly slow in the air), but on the large scale it's structural strength (jumping elephants would shatter their bones).

The main technique was combining parameters and universal constants, based on their units, to form dimensionless quantities, naming an unknown function of those quantities, and multiplying that by a combination of inputs that produced the necessary output units.  Then boundary conditions could be used to constrain the unknown function.  This might tell you that an output force would be proportional to the square of the size, which could let you make further estimations.. newt as in Newton. But today you'd write N, not "newt."

Newton Meter (Nm) is a combination of two units, 1 Newton \* 1 meter, commonly used for torque.. [removed]. Even now astro tends to still use cgs, sadly.. Looks like every length unit is in cm.  Probably just liked them better than meters.  I can see why.  There's 100x more, everywhere you look.. For someone not well versed, what does CGS stand for in the context of physics?. Thank you for sharing the details on these acronyms. My advisor used wavenumbers !. As someone who works in CMB data analysis, it’s all done in either brightness temperature (K Rayleigh-Jeans), or CMB  units (K CMB) nowadays.. Purcell's E&M textbook was famously and annoyingly in CGS, which is fine on its own but impossible to integrate with practical lab activities.

/u/Detectorbloke 's problem is more about the mix of units than the use of CGS though.. [deleted]. physicists: *(TRIGGERED)*. Wait how can you set the imaginary unit to one that doesn't make sense. I think it's alright once you get used to it tho it is a nightmare when converting back to SI. I think the best example I can think of is a Fermi Problem (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi_problem). Basically, we use known statistics to attempt to estimate an unknown parameter using dimensional analysis or order of magnitude estimations.. There's this guy who wrote an excellent (not yet completed) textbook on order of magnitude in physics. And to this link you can download some of the individual chapters.  

inference.org.uk/sanjoy/mit/. cgs is better than SI for electromagnetism because it emphasizes the fact that E and cB are components of a Lorentz tensor, just as x and ct are components of a Lorentz vector. In cgs, E and B have the same units, which is convenient. Also, factors like vacuum permittivity and permeability get absorbed into the definition of the electric charge. All this means that equations that involve both E and B become simpler, more elegant, and more evocative when written in cgs (particularly Lorentz-Heaviside, Gaussian units make a silly tradeoff that dampens that advantage).. Yes! It is at Caltech :) I am pretty excited to start this course next week. [removed]. It's a better system than mks.  Magnetic fields and electric fields have the same units.  That makes all of E&M and plasma physics significantly easier to work with.. I never understood why astronomers/astrophysicists use cgs. I can understand fields like condensed matter where experiments can be done on like a table top in a lab.


I mean I guess it doesn't matter since even if you use MKS (metres, kilograms and seconds)  the numbers will be huge anyway.


And then there's particle physicists who just said fk SI entirely and just use natural units.. It's obviously a bit silly in astro (though what units aren't silly in astro?), but cgs is the way to go in general. It plays nicer with E&M, and the base units are all lab scale.. It means the unit system is based on Centimetres Grams and Seconds rather than the usual metres, kilograms and seconds. [Centimetres, grams and seconds](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centimetre%E2%80%93gram%E2%80%93second_system_of_units). Physical chemist maybe? 

One of my faculty advisors who was pretty old at the time had done his early research studying infrared absorption, and he was visibly annoyed when I presented some FTIR data with "inverse cm" as the axis and one of his own Ph.D. students didn't know what that was about.. Everyone uses wavenumbers. It's a bit archaic in that in every other context it would be assumed to be "angular", but otherwise it's a great unit. It's directly proportional to energy rather than inversely proportional (so the higher number is higher energy and +100 cm^-1 is +100 cm^-1 no matter what your origin is), the values are such that your observables have reasonable magnitude in it (eg C-H stretch is ~3000 wavenumbers), and your typical uncertainties are on the order of a few wavenumbers. Spectroscopists in general use a lot of units which can make things confusing, but you're almost always going to see ~6600 wavenumbers instead of 1.5 micrometers.. Oh so do you approximate the background energy density as a blackbody?. Also wondering a bit about CGS, but yeah, I never really used Purcell's book. I only had lectures which were based on it (but we used SI in the exercises), so I was only subject to the weird way he introduces magnetism via special relativity.. It's nice that David J. Morin has updated it. I've never read his textbook but I would have thought CGS units make more sense in a lab setting since (at least historically) your experiment was on the measurement scales of those units.

I believe Kittel's book on solid state physics (at least the edition I read) is in CGS units.. Haha yeah I saw that was one of the options, I’m definitely gonna give it a shot. Well, it's a great way to identify if you have any mathematicians in the audience.. Your mistake was converting back. Only reason you need to do that is if you actually want to make something useful that helps people, and what's the point in that?. That's what I mean by 'keeping track of units'. I don't really have a great intuition for 'god units', so keeping track of what is what and how to visualize it can be hugely confusing. Unless it's really hairy, I prefer staying in SI. [Fermi Questions](https://scioly.org/wiki/index.php/Fermi_Questions) the Science Olympiad event is about that. An unfinished textbook on magnitude problems is kinda ironic. Depending on which parts are missing. As in, the textbook can help you mostly get what you want, but the details are vague.. The author, Sanjoy Mahajan, has published two books: "Street-Fighting Mathematics: The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving" and "The Art of Insight in Science and Engineering" that are, basically, a completion of this project.

[Fly by Night Physics: How Physicists Use the Backs of Envelopes](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=Fp7pDwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=zee+fly+by+night&hl=en&newbks=1&newbks_redir=1&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjuofr-rMbvAhVERxUIHVxlDxAQ6AEwAHoECAYQAg) by Anthony Zee can also be recommended for this type of course.. I wonder if I have the same sheet in a stack of old papers.. >It's a better system than mks.  Magnetic fields and electric fields have the same units.  That makes all of E&M and plasma physics significantly easier to work with.

Can you expand on this? Why would they have same units in cgs but not in mks?

SI unit for magnetic field is A/m and electric field is V/m. Thank you!. Thanks!. No no. He is a Physicist. He does spectroscopy, well known person. I had two advisors actually. I did experimental astrophysics under him ! Also, my other advisor worked with Robert Pound who worked with Purcell :). That’s right! Works out super nicely since the CMB is such a perfect black body and it’s deviations are on the order of ~10^-4. It’s easy to work with Galactic emission in the same units by expressing their energy density in relative terms. Though my personal preferred units would be in MJy/sr. Yes the new version is a big improvement, it's in SI and has useful problems.  I'd love to be using it in my class, but Griffiths is still better on the math side of things.. Unfortunately it's hard to find a .005-statvolt battery, a 1e6 centimeter capacitor, or a multimeter that reads in esu/second or seconds/cm.

The physical scale of the experiment doesn't matter much when the world's actual electrical devices are all labeled in SI units.. A non mathematician wouldn't even know what i is, tbf. The SI unit for magnetic field is T = N s C^-1 m^-1, and for electric field N C^-1 . 

The difference comes from the definition of a Coulomb (mks unit of charge) and the statCoulomb (cgs unit of charge).  The former is a basic unit, not defined in terms of other units, while the latter is defined only in terms of cm, g, and s.

The basic electric force law is F = k q1 q2 / r^2 .  mks and cgs make different choices for the constant k.  In cgs, k = 1, unitless, making the unit of charge be defined in terms of basic units.  In mks, k is defined in terms of the vacuum permittivity, so it has units, and consequently the mks unit of charge is not a simple combination of m, kg, and s.  

However, the speed of light is *also* defined in terms of the vacuum permittivity, so to keep it constant, the vacuum permeability must also differ between the two systems.  This introduces an extra factor of c in the magnetic force law.

The end result is that both magnetic and electric field have the same units in cgs: force per unit charge.  In mks, magnetic field is force per charge per velocity, and the difference is that factor of c.  

TL;DR.  mks made a dumb choice.. I'd personally supplement Purcell with Wangsness. The pure insight in that book is insane. I love that thing so much. wym? I'm not a mathematician and I know its just fancy 1. Heard it at a talk. Heh. i = sqrt( -1). It is imaginary because there is no real number you can multiply by itself to equal -1.. i = m (confused). [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed] Exactly 135 years ago Heinrich Hertz wrote in his diary "Happy this year is over, hoping that it will not be followed by another like it." The next year he met the love of his life and the following he discovered radio waves!. Hope your 2021 is full of love and discovery.. I am also hoping to discover radio waves.. Wholesome.. Happy this year is over, hoping that it will not be followed by another like it... I’ll update in two years and see if it works! Happy new year. Love Hertz. I hope my wife doesn’t get in the way of finding the love of my life like she did this year. But when did he invent the rental car?

FML I’ll see myself out. Thank you for this, unknown friend.. Low frequencies FTW.. I'm looking for my diary right fucking now.. [deleted]. They got married the year after that, I hear the reception was great!. Source pls?. Happy this year is over, hoping that it will not be followed by another like it.. Goddammit whose cutting onions!. Let’s not forget about his contributions to the rental car industry. One could argue it’s his greatest achievement. has somebody fact-checked this yet?  asking before sharing this as ig story.. What happened in 1886 that was so bad?. But. But... my daughter and dog both died from radio waves. I mean sure it was more technically micro waves inside a microwave but what's the difference?/s. If you want to know more about Hertz and how he discovered radio: https://youtu.be/E46ZU2rsupA. When did he invent the Hertz Donut?. I cant believe people on this sub, actually believe a change in year will change fortune. Its just another day, in all sense but by calendar.. Translational symmetry of time dictates that the next year will be the same as 2020. If it's not, we will be fucked due to violations of energy conservation happening everywhere. The Noether police would have to declare emergency and employ military rule.. :unsmith:. RIP in peace, inventor of the Hertz Donut.. very cool, wait until we discover another form of invisible energy this year. He was Mega.. Everybody Hertz. I was hoping to revolutionize contact mechanics this year. He had done it a few years earlier.. So far I got violently rear ended on a highway so idk about that one chief. Best of luck to you in your future endeavors.  ;). Heck I'd settle for good vibrations.. Radio wave vision time. We need a little bit of wholesome in this s89tshow of a year.. Love / s. Me too. Still sad about his early death.. I got it 😀 We're on the same frequency.. Ooooh oooh Love Hertz. Maybe the year before exactly 135 years ago.. His second-to-last year of grad school, when he was dead certain he’d never get out.. Of course, we all need something better than 2020!. Aww thanks. You can read it in “Electric Universe” by David Bodanis on page 96. Or “Heinrich Hertz: Memoirs letters diaries”. You can find it in the book “electric universe” by David Bodanis on page 96 I’ve also read it in the original published diaries and letters of Heinrich Hertz but that one you have to get from the library and you can’t find it searchable on the Internet. (Well you couldn’t find it two years ago when I last checked). Here is a link to the Bodanis book: https://books.google.com/books?id=c-gfwgw1JSEC&pg=PA223&dq=electric+universe&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiqk_u7vPvtAhWCtZ4KHYJVD_YQuwUwAnoECAAQBw#v=snippet&q=“This%20year”&f=false. Think mostly it was that his scientific research wasn’t going as well as he wished it to go.. Microwaves are literally high frequency so therefore small wavelength radio waves so… Sorry for your loss.. Does it tell what was so bad about 1885 for him?. I can't believe you *actually think* people on this sub honestly believe a simple change of digits on a calendar is solely what will bring about a change of fortune.. It's just a fun little way to psychologically organize the narrative of your life. No one thinks what you think they do.. Something that warms our cold, icy heartz. Wouldn't it be nice?. Marky Mark is that you?. Aren’t we all looking for good vibrations ; ). Thanks a lot <3. Samba? Let's samba m'amoré.. If we were older. Then we wouldn't have to wait so long First 70 states of a particle trapped in a circular well. nan. This video shows the first 70 eigenstates states of a particle trapped in a circular potential well. The color maps to probability density (black<green<yellow<purple). The transitions are animated by rotating in the hyperplane spanned by the two consecutive states. 

Happy to answer any questions you might have!. Very cool! Also reminds me a little of mitosis,  kinda. Umm, I'm a highschool student who lurks around to learn something new. Can someone explain this in layman's terms? TIA!. very similar to modes in a multi-mode fiber.. Loving this ! (Computational chemist here....). Awesome. Engineering pays the bills but shit like this captures the beauty i miss from physics undergrad. Nice work! [It reminds me of when I solved the same problem in a PDE class a few years back.](https://i.imgur.com/uq9CL1K.png). I know jack about physics, but aren't some of those just the same pattern rotated?. The states all seem rotationally symmetric but lots have a reflectional anti symmetry. How come? Something to do with then being fermions?. nice...i think these are also the same as cylindrical TEM modes for say, light coupled into a cavity. Tho I'm not positive. What are these states called though ?. Nice!

Would be nice to also see the quantum numbers.. Does first 70 states mean in order of increasing energy?  Apologies, been a minute since my modern physics course! xD. This looks totally like diffraction :D. Anon posts a video about physics, I count along with the video an come to 70 at the same time the video does and I feel smart .... Yeah real smart. Who else counted?. One of the things I love about physics is that there is a unifying theme in the math used to describe quantum mechanics, mechanical vibrations and electromagnetic theory: eigenfunctions.

In this case, we are looking at the eigenvectors of a particle. You may recall memorizing difference electron shells in high school or college chemistry (s, p, d, f, g). Those shells are basically just different eigenvectors in a model like the one shown here.

When you strum a guitar string and see the different modes of vibration, those are the eigenvectors of the string and the harmonic notes are the corresponding eigenvalues (or the square root of them technically).

In the EM space, eigenvalues are used to represent the radio frequency wavelengths of antennae.

And like almost all important mathematical discoveries, its roots go back to Leonard Euler who derived the Euler-Bernoulli beam theory that was later used to describe the most basic eigenfuntion. Euler was probably one of the greatest minds in human history and doesn't get nearly enough credit by the broader public. He probably advanced human knowledge by a hundred years.. Got to love Bessel functions!. Aweosome! What have you used to do the calculations and the animation?. and now i want some avacadoes! 
thanks particles. Would be interesting to see the time evolution of these. In particular, I’ve seen some wonderful visualizations where the doubly degenerate pairs for a similar system were combined to give left- and right- rotating states. Really brought home the reason for the degeneracy.. Very cool. Reminds me of [these experiments](https://youtu.be/wvJAgrUBF4w) on acoustic tables.. Fantastic! Since you’re following a numerical approach, how about running a simulation for two circular wells placed side by side, and just touching each other at the boundary?

Suppose two circular wells of unit radius are placed, with one centred at (-1,0) and other at (1,0).. the point at origin lies in the well(s) so potential at (0,0) is V_0 = 0 and 10^5 everywhere else outside the circles..

Or maybe something more fancy like [this] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rose_(mathematics)?wprov=sfti1

Thanks! Would love to see your code too... What's up with the s states not having perfect angular symmetry?

It looks like there's some 4-fold structure creeping in, but my intuitive sense is that there SHOULD be some number of states w/ perfect angular symmetry. Also the x and y axes seem slightly tilted counterclockwise?. Til fruit is just trapped particles. Reading this thread was awesome.. Reminds me of NW Indian art.. Is it possible to solve for 2 particles in a potential well? Sorry if I sound like a monkey :). It just kinda starts looking like garlic cloves. It's turtles all the way down.. Lovely animations! Just curious about this one. Is there any way to experimentally verify that these simulated probability distributions are accurate? I know quantum physics is more accurate at predictions than most other theories but crazy stuff like this (and tunnelling etc.) often makes gives me an "is this even real?" feeling in my head.. These remind me of atomic orbitals. Probably has to do with the similar principle of formation.. It looks like many of these are just rotations of each other (where those are distinct). Is this a case like polarization where the same pattern at a given rotation can be expressed as a combination of two specific alignments or is there a reason that there's discrete rotations?. Drugs. Fantastic! How much does this depend on the initial state? Also, will it continue to produce an increasingly modal distribution (i.e. increasing number of local maxima)?. How do you compute that there are exactly 70 such states? Blows my mind.. Shouldn't the wave functions always be symmetric under rotations for such symmetric potentials? For example the function at 0:45, it is symmetric under rotations of n * pi/2 degrees, with n integer. But for other angles it isn't symmetric. Why is this?. What happens when you connect this domain with another domain by a small tunnel (2% overlap in radius) and let them interact?. a particle is clearly the wrong word for what that is.. Amazing animation!! Only suggestion I’d make if possible is that you should add a legend to know what colour reflects what probability (I read you explained it in the comments, so I’m probably being a bit too picky).. Gorgeous! These are all derived from different quantum numbers?. Do they ever double up after a while or is every state unique?. Fist of all thank you for posting this and your answers. I have reviewed the gist of a [Wikipedia article ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eigenstate_thermalization_hypothesis?wprov=sfti1) on the topic and I have one question. 

Please explain the concept of a “well” in your statistical model. Does this well trap or condense the likelihood of the particles being detected?. This reminds me of those experiments with sand on a vibrating metal plate.. This is probably fairly stupid, but does the governing equations of this phenomena have any relation to how garlic is formed? The first few look very close to garlic cloves to me.. This really reminds me of the patterns seen with Chladni plates; is there any mathematical connection between the patterns seen on those plates and the states, here?. Looks kinda like the patterns you get when you put a metal plate on top of a speaker, toss salt on the plate, and turn the speaker on.. Mesmerizing animation. I love it.   
Some of these shapes are reminiscent of fruit cross sections. Incredible.. This is giving me like Vietnam flashbacks to being confused af during my lecture last week lol. Looks like some kind of tropical fruit. Wait I thought there were only 5 states. thanks for sharing. Amazing, I've been playing with cymatics quite a bit, and they produce same patterns. It's mind blowing for me that you made this on a computer.. Hopefully this isn’t a dumb question. If you were to bounce a ball around inside the circle how well would it’s location in time match up with the areas of greatest probability?  I feel like I can almost see it moving around but that might just be my brain trying to find a pattern where there isn’t one.. I just love quantum scarring. So that’s where the structure of electron orbital configurations come from. This looks like a fever dream I had. Looks like the energy states of a hydrogen atom. This looks like the eigenfunctions of the Laplacian on a disk or at least the first few do.. u/savevideo. This looks very much like the Transverse Electromagnetic Modes of a waveguide.. More mushrooms please. Are these states of probaibility of finding the particle at a point? Do they really alternate in time? How many are there?. Is there a polynomial for this?. What's the difference between one state and a state that looks the same but is rotated?. Looks a little like Cymatics, which would make sense given everything is running on frequency.. I don’t know why looking at this makes me feel nauseous, kind of triggers my trypophobia but nonetheless it’s still amazing to witness.. r/ScientificArt. First 70 states of nature giving physicists the finger. Awesome! Thank you for sharing it with us :). These are spherical harmonics, aka same thing as electron shells, right?. Quick, someone teach the serotonin in my brain to do this.. Looks a bit like an alien embryo developing.. I've never understood why these wavefunctions are not all invariant under rotation. It feels like they "should" be. Can anyone eli5?. This is awesome, thanks for sharing.. Avocados. Why are the shapes so uneven? If this is just based on a mathematical model, shouldn't the shapes be more... even?. anyone watch that and think that's just a system with space expanding and that particles are constantly emerging from space as it expands? 

And the deeper we look into the space the more particles we'll find unto infinity like looking into a fractal? 

And what a particle really is is just a system and has no basis as a fundamental element, but is just a packet of space? 

And quantum physics is just the analysis of a hypothetical boundary defining a system and the gap between energy in a quantum system and a classic system is because we're excluding the infinite amount of particles in a quantum system when looking at a classic system and maybe physicists need a lesson on fractal geometry and a refresher in calculus to bridge the gap? 

And that maybe cosmologists need the same refresher because the universe is just a hypothetical boundary and outside of it is the same expanding space unto infinity?

And that Big bang theorists should give up because space has always been expanding at the same rate and the CMB is probably just the leftovers of the supernova caused by the closest white dwarf to a theoretical point, and so if you assume space has always been expanding from a point then using the oldest known object all your finding is the supernova radiation from the closest supernova to that point?

And that the idea that the expansion of space is from nothing is in error because space could have been expanding for eternity from a smaller and smaller point and the idea of inflation is just to make up for a calculus calculated jump from an infinitely small point to for example only a theoretically smallest distance known as a Planck length and because time is intrinsic to space that the jump can be calculated to a time in years because the distance was just converted to years which at such small sizes wouldn't make sense in the same way due to the relativity of spacetime?

I don't doubt that I've made some errors in details, but physics puts way to many theoretical limits on the infinite just because the church decided the world(land, earth, galaxy, universe) was created because its the only foot they stand on. 

"We've found fundamental pieces of existence!"

a while later...

"We've found even more fundamental pieces of existence"

a while later

"We think we've found THE most fundamental pieces of existence and if we found anything else we'd have to give up most of our theoretical limits and theories on cosmology and particles and the nature of the universe and space and time itself and abandon the idea that a  deity created the universe"

a while later

"Sir, we think we've found more fundamental particles", Sir: "Heretic!" \*chops off head\*

Anyways, I think the image is beautiful and haunting. They look like the patterns created on a metal plate by Ernst Chladni. Is it coincidence, or are they similar?. Get high and watch this.. I always think I'm pretty smart. After you see something like this I'm just floored by the amount of stuff I don't know anything about.  Very nice!. Anybody else see a lot of avocados?. I vibe with #59 like woah.... When solving the equation multiple times, did you find that the solutions differed by a small rotation? It's interesting that the eigenstates are "aligned" along the x and y axes.. Noob questions:

So we fix the mass, and consider solutions of the schrodinger for various energies (including kinetic and potential). There are then the eigenvalues (a continous spectrum, for instance you can rotate solutions) and the eigenvectors. Each eigenvector is a function of (x,t), you plotted for each eigenvector v, |v(x,t)|^2 for a fixed t and ranging over different x. This makes sense because by taking eigenvalues literally as time follows it just gets multiplied by a const so it makes sense to fix some time. We then get these amazing animations! Is this correct?. u/savevideo. Highschool student here with a likely stupid question, does this orient with the up down spin of the electron at all?. can I get the code?. can you share the code?. Are these states obtained by solving the schrodinger equation in 2d analytically? what potential function did you use?. What software/language did you use to simulate this?. If it's probability, why isn't there perfect rotational symmetry?. Can you eli5? What type of particle? What’s an eigenstate? Really cool!. Are you familiar with 't Hooft's "cogwheels" and the cellular automata interpretation?. Are these showing electron orbitals?. Great animation. What do you mean by rotating in the hyper plane spanned by consecutive states?. You are awesome thank you for that!!!. How far are we from solving nuclear fusion?. Looks like you have some degenerate eigenstates thrown in there, ~~this seems to be common if your boundary conditions are not exactly rotationally symmetric.~~ This isn't the case here apparently.

For example modes 2 and 3 will have the same eigen value so are degenerate, ~~but something about your setup is causing them to have slightly different eigen values.~~ Edit: Read the rest of the thread ignore me.. Yes, Reminds me of a [developing embryo](https://youtu.be/SEejivHRIbE). It looks like when they put sand on an acoustic table and at different frequencies it drastically changes its pattern.. You have a single particle (e.g. an electron) confined to a sphere (or circle in 2D). This particle can be represented as a wave that interferes with itself, kind of like a standing wave. Depending on the energy, it can form a variety of "patterns" (eigenstates of the Hamiltonian). You see these patterns here.. You have an electron captured and enclosed in a sphere/circle. Electron cant escape that circle and it can only be positioned inside that circle.

Now, in macroscopic world (that is, world where we live in) you know exactly where is something you put inside a circle. Its position is well defined and can be known and measured. However, in the realm of quantum mechanics (that is, when we are dealing with atomically small objects like electrons) we cant know exact position of an object, only probability of object being in particular place. We can only know its "wave function" - its a function describing some object that contains all information of that object (in this case electron).

What this graph represents its exactly that - it displays wave function of an electron inside that circle. Now, what are those different colors you see? Different colors represent different probabilities that electron is at that particular place. In this case purple indicates that there is high probability of electron being in that particular place inside circle and greenish/yellow indicates low probability of electron being in that place.

Why is there 70 different pictures? Well, OP displayed graph for 70 different energy levels. In quantum mechanics energy is quantised, which means it can only have certain values. First picture is when electron has minimal energy. Next picture is when electron has little bit more energy, and so on.... It's basically the same thing. Both are solutions to a second order partial differential equation (wave equation) with boundary conditions that the field should vanish at the boundary.. Glad you like it!. This warms my heart as it's exactly what motivates me to create these. Thanks!. Physics felt like an academia Ponzi scheme.
Engineering does pay the bills, and though physics undergrad made me sharp, in retrospect going the engineer route directly would have saved so much time, and money.

Physics Colleges really needs to get their act together in terms of opening up to corporate recruiting, it’s embarrassing how bad it is rn.

Here’s a fun story for you; my friend who graduated with his physics BS had to have a 3rd party company perform 2 weeks worth of ‘engineering aptitude exams’ and submit it to the government as well as a professor letter, so the government would recognize his degree as ‘Counts as Engineering’ for hire....

(Sorry for the salt in such a cool post Physics buds, I think the post is obviously cool AF, but it just hurts seeing my super close friends go through this after working so hard). Thanks for sharing. Those pictures are very nice and make me want to put together a 3d version of this animation.... Yes, indeed. Most come in pairs that are just rotated versions of one another. You're right to feel that these aren't really that different. Why show 2 then? Because you need 2 to "span" the space of possible rotations. By adding up these two in different ways, you can form any rotated version. This is an example of a continuous degeneracy and results from the pristine symmetry of the circle. Lots of systems in 2D have discrete symmetries, but not so many have continuous ones.. There's just 1 particle here so its bosonic/fermionic nature doesn't factor in. Also, the colors show probability density which >0, not wave function value, so you won't be able to see any antisymmetry (symmetry transformation results in the negative value).. The angular part is determined by spherical harmonics, that's what you see here. The radial part is a Bessel.. From u/the_poope in another thread about optical fibres

"It's basically the same thing. Both are solutions to a second order partial differential equation (wave equation) with boundary conditions that the field should vanish at the boundary.". Yea, they are. [Here are the TEM (just Ex but you get the picture) for a step-index fibre.](https://imgur.com/a2bOpCE). I solve this numerically, so I don't have a fancy name for the functions. However, I think if you solved this analytically,  the radial part would be expressed as ~~cylindrical Bessel functions and the rotational part would be expressed with sines and cosines~~. Someone correct me if wrong...

EDIT: see the correct answer by u/duckfat01 below.. Truncated spherical waves.. Thanks! I plan on making a version with quantum numbers and eigenvalues soon for my physicist friends ;).. Correct!. whew. I'm glad that worked out. I didn't even count.. Leonard “oh no I didn’t call it *e* after my name... no, no that’s a coincidence” Euler

Also responsible for the dickass f(x) notation we use today. I do all of this in Python using the numpy library. I don't use matplotlib for the animation. I generate the arrays representing the frames and write them to a video file using OpenCV VideoWriter.. Cool idea. I'll add this to the list of things to try.. Cool idea. I could try this. I have tried a number of other configurations. You can see some on my IG: https://www.instagram.com/hudthescientist/.. I made a similar numerical Schrödinger equation solver for the arbitrary shaped well, because OP does not want to share his  code :)

https://www.reddit.com/r/generative/comments/mcdd39/2d_time_independent_schrodinger_equation/. Did as you suggested. Quite interesting shapes

Shape of well: [https://i.imgur.com/03KWQuZ.png](https://i.imgur.com/03KWQuZ.png)

Probability distributions (out of order): [https://imgur.com/a/M3E49Is](https://imgur.com/a/M3E49Is)

Github: [https://github.com/weightan/SchrodingerWellPython](https://github.com/weightan/SchrodingerWellPython)

Any other ideas?. Numerical errors break the perfect angular symmetry (mainly basis truncation error), but you can still tell which states are supposed to be symmetric. These are the ring-like states with no angular modes for example the ground state or the state around \~12-13 seconds.. It certainly is, but my solver doesn't do this yet. I would like to do this, though as it allows you to show the effects of the particle's being distinguishable, fermionic, or bosonic.. These are solution for a potential well. Atomic orbital are solutions for the atom (1/r coulomb potential). So you have Schrödinger equations for different kinds of potentials.. Because of the circular symmetry, most of the states come in degenerate pairs. For these states, any two distinct rotations of the state span the space of possible rotations. There's nothing special about the two specific alignments shown in the animation.. Thanks! These are the stationary states of the system -- no time evolution involved so no initial condition. If you did time evolve any one of these states (not counting transitions), they would stay in the same configuration forever. 

And yes! Each new non-degenerate state adds one additional mode and that continues until the energy of the states is greater than the energy of the confining potential.. There's an infinite number, it's not bounded. Only 70 are shown.. States with the same energy but differing rotational symmetries could mix together.  Or if the calculations are done on a grid of points, states that ideally should have *almost* the same energy may get tweaked enough by the effects of the grid to mix together.

For the first case, it should be possible to find combinations of the states with identical energy that do all have an n-fold symmetry.  For the second case, going to finer mesh density could split them apart correctly.. These pictures certainly emphasize the wave-like character of a quantum "particle".. No it's not. These are the states a particle is in when it has definite energy (eigen states of the Hamiltonian).. Thanks! My goal in creating this was mainly to inspire non-experts, but I plan on creating a more robust data-viz style of this animation soon. Adding a color bar is a good idea.. You could say that. These are the energy eigenstates.. Because of the circular symmetry most states come in degenerate pairs. These can be transformed into one another by rotation. Only the pure radially-excited states are unique like the first state.. It's an infinite potential that is employed outside of the sphere/circle. This ensures the wavefunction is zero on the boundary and outside of it. 

The model is not statistical. It's simply a numerical solution of the Schroedinger equation.. Well just literally means a potential that looks like a well. The particle is confined in a region where there's figuratively speaking high walls surrounding it (maybe infinite, depends on the model, finite or infinite well).. Perhaps a deep connection related to a very general type of optimization problem, but I would have a hard time identifying a concrete connection. I like to think about this though.... Yes there is: both the patterns on those plates and in this animation are the result of a wave equation. They're not the same wave equation, as Shroedinger's equation doesn't treat time the same as space, but it's no coincidence that they look similar.. Yes, the probability density to be exact. The animation is just to show the ladder of states, it doesn't correspond to any physical process. There are countably infinite in a theoretical construction of this system! In reality, the potential could only ever be so deep and the ladder of states would end.  I just show the first 70.. Similar but different. This is a 2D system and spherical harmonics come from the angular part in 3d.. Good intuition. These wave functions are either: 

1. Rotationally invariant like the ground state, or
2. Come in a "degenerate" (equal-energy) pair of states

In the latter case, any rotated version can be generated by an appropriate linear combination of the 2. There's nothing special about the 2 shown in the animation.. The numerical solution has errors.. I solve the Schrodinger equation in 2d **numerically** though I think there is an analytical solution for this particular system. The potential is 0 in the interior of the circle and very large outside (\~10\^5 times the ground state energy). In my numerical approach, I compute the Hamiltonian matrix in the basis of 2d box eigenstates truncated to the first \~400 box states. I then solve this eigensystem to get the states shown in this sequence.. Python; mainly numpy. I don't use matplotlib for the animation. I generate the frames and write them to an mp4 with OpenCV VideoWriter. I have a custom colormap.. You can see some artifacts from my numerical approach. I solve the system in the basis of 2d box eigenstates (square peg in round hole?). You might reasonably ask why I do this. The answer is that I use this solver for lots of other boundary conditions with other symmetries or no symmetries at all.. Why do the solutions need to be rotationally symmetric? Just because there's rotational invariance DOES NOT imply a particular solution has to have the same symmetry. Generally having a representation is enough. A prime example is our universe. Certainly it's not exactly homogenous and isotropic everywhere, even though the equations are.. The type of particle: any 2D particle that follows the [Schrodinger equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erwin_Schr%C3%B6dinger), the fundamental equation of quantum mechanics.

Eigenstates are solutions to the time-independent Schrodinger equation. Basically, think standing quantum-mechanical waves in a circular box. Waves with more nodes are similar to overtones of a vibrating guitar string. The lowest energy wave, the ground state which was the first eigenstate shown, is the largest wavelength wave that can "fit" inside the circular box.. I am not. Have a good reference?. Not really  but it's analogous. Electron orbitals are specifically the energy eigen states in a 1/r (Coulomb) potential (like in the hydrogen atom), or generally in atoms. This is a [potential well](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potential_well) not an atom.  /u/semperverus. I had the same question but was too afraid to ask. I was going to say, these look a lot like some electron orbitals!. Similar but different.

1. This is 2D, rather than 3D.
2. This is a potential well with a flat bottom and sharp edges.  An atom is (more or less) a 1/r potential well.  So it doesn't have the sharp edges.. Thanks! if psi_n is one state and psi_{n+1} is the next, the transitional states in the animation are generated as cos(theta)\psi_n + sin(theta)\psi_{n+1} where theta varies from 0 to pi/2 over the transition time window. This is a rotation in the sense that it preserves the norm of the two states. It's "in the hyperplane spanned by consecutive states" in that it does not involve any other eigenstates, just these two.. Damn that’s cool. Cymatics.

And based on my limited understanding of the wave nature of particles, that's not coincidence.. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vibrations_of_a_circular_membrane. I see, thanks for the answer!

Edit: so This is like a particle probability cloud?. So, the energy is what's mapped to time in the animation? is it increasing lineally?. And what do the patterns mean or imply?. Are these patterns something we could theoretically observe or are they just a fun way to visualize the states?. OMG, thanks for elaborating! I understand it clearly now. Also, another question, can these 70 pictures also be called entropy graph of an electron in a closed sphere? Entropy is the total possible configurations so, with increasing energy, the number of possible positions of the electrons increase aswell right? Sorry if the question is too dumb :3. Yep, also applies to vibrational modes of a stretched membrane! (eg. the skin of a drum). I understand. I'm pretty sure that if my job required I was a 'licensed' engineer with the state I wouldn't qualify because I don't have a properly accredited degree. Fortunately I don't need that for my field 

I sort of lucked into the path that I went down. My undergrad program gave me a good fundamental technical background but didn't prepare professionally for anything besides the physics phd/postdoc grind. Go for it! It'd be fun to watch.. If this is probability density and not wave function value, then I think we should be seeing continuous rotational symmetry. Correct me if I'm wrong, please.. It may also have something to do with sin, cos, and tan fxns in numpy, especially the tan fxns if you use them. 

It would explain why, at first glance, most of the asymetry was near a pi/2 angle.

Neat to see it.. These are the Laguerre-Gauss polynomials, which are very familiar to anyone who has studied higher-order laser modes. As others have stated above, this no surprise, since these also result from solving the wave equation.. Love it! Mad cool. He also popularized the use of i for imaginary numbers, Σ to denote a sum, and π to represent half the circumference of a circle.

Besides creating the language in which most modern math is written, he also solved a lot of real world problems like the aforementioned cantilever beam equation that led to the construction of the Ferris wheel and Eiffel Tower, and acted as the first stepping stone in the path to mechanical vibrations and quantum mechanics. He solved the seven bridges problem. He came up with the most beautiful equation ever (e^(iπ)+1=0) and was describing Fourier series before Fourier was born. He even invented the Venn Diagram over 100 years before Venn.

And he did much of this without sight, having gone blind in one eye at 31 and completely blind at 59. He accomplished more in the 17 years of his life without sight as most countries have produced collectively from all of their best mathematicians throughout their entire history. Truly one of the greatest humans of all time. Cheers to Leonhard Euler!. Think you need to visualize phase to catch it, but I think it’d be lovely!. also with bigger bridge: [https://i.imgur.com/hCHI0p1.png](https://i.imgur.com/hCHI0p1.png)

 Probability distributions (out of order):  [https://imgur.com/a/xnZqKYu](https://imgur.com/a/xnZqKYu). Would be awesome, perhaps that would aid to my very flawed understanding of spin... I think current models fail miserably to explain spin in a matter that the general public can understand it, or even grasp it, but perhaps I am only speaking for myself.. :P

Unless spin would not be covered at all in this solution, in which case I apologize for my general lack of understanding. Ah right, eigenstates, duh! Super cool! 😊. Thanks for the clarification! Is it countable infinite or is this an artefact from the simulation?. Ah okay, thanks! It's been a long time since my quantum classes!. Well, garlic density has a zero boundary conditon on a roughly-spherical garlic head too :p.. >though I think there is an analytical solution for this particular system

Yes, using [Bessel functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bessel_function).. Why didn't you solve the equation in polar coordinate system?. > The potential is 0 in the interior of the circle and very large outside (\~10\^5 times the ground state energy).

Probably a newbie question - if the potential is fixed at 0 on the interior as a boundary condition, why does its value matter on the outside?. Excuse me, what?. I mean that even accounting for numerical approximations, there seems to only be discrete rotational symmetry, where I think there should be continuous rotational symmetry. If you were plotting the real/complex part of the wave function, then discrete symmetries would emerge that would go away when you take the modulus. For example, for a particle on a ring, psi ~ e^{im\phi} has discrete rotational symmetry that becomes continuous you take |psi|.

edit: the symmetry does not go away; it becomes continuous

edit2: I forgot a lot of basic physics here, embarrassingly. Namely that symmetry rotational symmetry implies continuous symmetry only for the probability densities of the angular momentum eigenstates, not the general energy eigenstates.. At a large enough scale the difference is small enough to be negligible. Yeah, you're right.. https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783319412849#:~:text=%20The%20Cellular%20Automaton%20Interpretation%20of%20Quantum%20Mechanics,arguments%2C%20with%20technical%20details%20presented%20separately%20More%20. Oh man why?  This is anonymous!  I ask anything live in class without a second thought.  Anybody who has an issue with questions is an idiot.  Anybody scoffing at someone for trying to learn, is a scoff you don’t need to consider!. Yeah, that makes sense. Thanks!. >Thanks! if `psi_n` is one state and `psi_{n+1}` is the next, the transitional states in the animation are generated as `cos(theta)\psi_n + sin(theta)\psi_{n+1}` where theta varies from 0 to pi/2 over the transition time window. This is a rotation in the sense that it preserves the norm of the two states. It's "in the hyperplane spanned by consecutive states" in that it does not involve any other eigenstates, just these two.

Had to correct that formatting.. Yes.. The energy comes in discrete levels, and we're trying to explore every level as well as every state within the same level. Some of these levels may correspond to more than one state, and in general terms states that have similar energy will also look very similar (take all those states that look like you just obtained them from a rotation: those are almost surely at the same energy).. They show you where you're likely to find the electron if you do a measurement ("red spots"). That's all there is to it.. You could. Electronic density is a quantity measurable experimentally. What would be more difficult is the spherical confinement of the electron.. Question is not dumb, its excellent! You are right, entropy is also a measure of number of possible configurations of a system. In this case i would say entropy doesnt change. You see, electrom can be in (lets say) infinite number of positions at the start (first picture). It can be in the center (highest probability) but it can also be anywhere else... Sure, probability is lower, but still it can be there. It can be anywhere it "wants" to be.
Same applies to latter situations. All thats changed is configuration of probability - it has higher probabilities of being somewhere else but it can still be anywhere in that circle. So the number of possible states (positions) is still unchanged

So in short - electron can be anywhere in that circle space for every energy... all that changes is probability of being in particular point.
I hope this makes sense. You're right and wrong at the same time! Basically, for each energy eigenvalue you get two solutions with angular dependences exp(i m phi) and exp(-i m phi) (and identical radial wavefunction). For those, the density is uniform in angular direction. But since they are degenerate, every linear combination of them, like cos(n phi), is also an eigenstate, that's how you get what OP shows. You can rotate these solutions by any angle, all that does is change the linear combination of the complex exponentials.. Oh my! Thanks a lot! The outputs are surreal! I’m shocked really! 

Thanks for the script mate.. I’ll also try to implement it on my end. :-). It's countable infinite. You can number each state with a set of numbers: L and M (describing the angular part, essentially quantum numbers), and a third, radial number.. You get a discrete set of states loosely  because the potential confines the particle in space (you have a continuum of "free" states at higher energies).. It would be cool to see quantum numbers accompanying these states. I would guess that they would correspond to the energy and angular momentum of the particle.

EDIT: after solving the Schrödinger equation, it appears that the energy of the each solution is given by [; \frac{\hbar\^2}{2\mu R\^2} x_{n,m}\^2;].

[; \mu ;] is equal to the mass of the particular, and [; R ;] is the radius of the well. [; x_{n,m} ;] is the [; n ;]th root of the [; m;]-order Bessel function of the first kind (which is the functional form of the wavefunction in the radial direction). This root corresponds to the edge of the infinite well, which imposes a boundary condition on the radial wavefunction.

The angular momentum of the particle, meanwhile, is equal to [; \hbar m ;].. Do you have any reference on how to approach this?. This would be much more natural for this particular system, I agree. I use my solver for all sorts of systems with other symmetries or no symmetries at all (you can see a collection of my works on [my public IG](https://www.instagram.com/hudthescientist/)) and prefer a "one size fits all" kind of approach.. In principle it doesn't. However, in the numerical approach I use here, the large value on the outside is how I enforce the boundary condition. Such a large potential forces the wave function very close to zero at the boundary. This approach makes it possible to handle any shape boundary or non-constant potentials in the interior in the same framework without fussing about how to enforce the boundary conditions.. Oh, I see now, thanks. You're right; most of the states of this system live in a continuous degenerate subspace corresponding to rotations about an axis normal to the disc and at its center. The answer as to why you only see two discrete examples from this subspace is that you only need two states to span the entire subspace. From linear combinations of these two you can get any of the others.. Using sines and cosines for the angular part instead of complex exponentials wouldn't lead to continuous symmetries of the probability densities.. even if you ignore the spatial inhomogeneity there's the temporal part (the Universe is getting bigger). Don't want to get too technical, but the maximally symmetric spacetime is really Ads/Ds space, and there wouldn't be a big bang. There are other more extreme examples like the Higgs mechanisms...etc. Anyway, the world is filled with these spontaneously broken symmetries and it's what makes the world interesting!. This sub is pretty judgemental and regularly shoots down layman questions and interpretations. Got it, like spherical harmonics, more than one configuration in each level, right?. Damn that pesky uncertainty principle. 


Thanks for the reply friend.. This graph is for probability but entropy is different from probability. The entropy remains the same as probability isn't anything concrete. I understand it now. Thank you for taking your time to answer this!. Yep, I forgot that you get a continuum of degenerate states, not just two degenerate states. Stupid me.

But what if I took a linear combination over all rotations? Then I would end up with an integral over delta of exp(i delta)exp(i m phi) + exp(-i delta)exp(-i m phi) from 0 to 2pi. Wouldn't that integrate to zero?. heart :) [https://i.imgur.com/Gx8KIRD.png](https://i.imgur.com/Gx8KIRD.png). Also made a 3d version 

Pictures: https://imgur.com/a/fNWPlKy

Uploaded on GitHub: https://github.com/weightan/SchrodingerWellPython. I think so too.. Since it's all a numeric simulation, why not just force the potential to be 0?. Oh, of course. Now I feel dumb for forgetting basic QM. I forgot that you don't just get two degenerate states, but a continuum of degenerate states.. Imagine higgs decay far enough to not reach us ever 

Now imagine we're surrounded by a higgs decayed universe so whichever direction we travel we always hit a region that has already higgs decayed. A question is way different than an interpretation. Questions are for learning about well-established science. "Interpretations" are usually for spouting crackpot nonsense.. Yeah and? Still basically no cost to asking a question.. Crazy how people can obtain so much information, and still be idiots.. Exactly. The wavefunction breaks up in a radial and angular parts where the angular part is given by spherical harmonics (at least I think this is the case, I should brush up on cylinder boundary conditions...); spherical harmonics depend on the number n of energy quanta but also on the angular number l, and energy can be shown to not depend on l.. Perhaps it's better to think of all linear combinations that give a state with unit norm.. This guy thinks ^^^. Do you mean wavefunction? If so, then, yes, there are approaches that do this, like the finite difference method for solving directly in position space. I have created a solver that uses the finite difference method and haven't been as happy with the outcome for the same amount of compute time.. Everybody has to start somewhere bud. Physics isn't exactly something anybody can just hop into, and the toxic community here only makes matters worse. Not all of us have the luxury of higher education.. I also agree with free speech and open discourse, but when comments get downvoted to oblivion, attacked, and frequently removed by mods, this sub isn't always the best place to get acquainted with physics or have beliefs corrected. Bessel functions boi. Sure, but my state satisfies that if you just throw a 1/sqrt(2) in front of it, for all delta and phi.. This guy knows ^. Do you have an example of the toxicity you're referring to?. But the linear combination (the integral you describe) does not result in a state of unit norm. It's like adding a + (-a).. Hmph. This guy. 🙄. This guy ^ ^. You, assuming anybody who tries to describe things using their own experiences must be a crackpot, would be a good one. Just browse /new here for an hour to see how noobs get frequently shot down.. Yep, you're right. Man I'm rusty.. Why would you try to reinvent physics when it's already been invented? That's the definition of crackpottery.. No judgement here. You helped me think through the degeneracy issue more clearly.. It's not reinventing, dingus. Here you are with your prejudice and assumptions, thinking you must be right because other people have told you so, investing your life learning a specific method, with other people that believe that truth. Some people just were not exposed to the large establishment of physics education, and make comments that are based on incomplete assumptions and limited exposure. These people should be nurtured and directed towards the known truth, or else shit like /r/fived and /r/fourthdimension happens. The best way to combat pseudoscience is with patience and education.. >I'm currently trying to think of how you would construct a rotationally symmetric state for an arbitrary energy.

Wait, my rust is on full display today. You cannot do that. Otherwise its angular momentum would be zero. Amazing what being out of the field for 7 whole months will do to your knowledge.. I'm currently trying to think of how you would construct a rotationally symmetric state for an arbitrary energy.. Education is free online. You only have to pay for the credentials.. You seem to have it all figured out (including everything about me, wow!). You should make your own sub. :). In case you didn't notice, we're online. Unless you're implying you want to judge people based on education level and make this an exclusive community? That's awfully authoritarian for a man of science, basically the definition of classism.. Are you expecting a rise out of this, because that was equally as pathetic as all the people going full /r/iamverysmart whenever somebody asks an honest question here. I have no problem with quality filters. First image of a black hole. nan. Just FYI, that thing is 50 MILLION lightyears away in the M87 galaxy. This [article](https://phys.org/news/2019-04-astronomers-unveil-photo-black-hole.html) likens it to "photographing a pebble on the Moon". That shit's impressive.

Oh, it's also 6.5 **billion** times the mass of the sun.. Higgs detected in 2012

Gravitational waves detected in 2015

Black hole seen in 2019

I wonder what we will find a few years from now.. That is, in every sense of the word, awesome! I can't stop looking at it. Note, this is an image of the center of M87, not Sagittarius A*


Edit: [Here is a more direct link to the image](https://twitter.com/ehtelescope/status/1115964692802019328)

Edit 2: The EU conference said (just now) that they are still processing the Sagittarius A* image. having zero knowledge on the topic, I would like to ask if this picture means that we are looking at the blackhole in a "top-to-bottom" kind of way? I would expect the accretion disk to "cross" the blackhole if you were looking at it from the front. Or would it be too dim to be seen this way?. The official press release + all 6 papers being released today can be found [here](https://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=298276).. Is the yellow part what you’d call an accretion disk?. It's things like this that makes me glad I'm majoring in physics.. You win the low-stakes karma war. All others will be removed.

[Higher quality image](https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/blackholes/downloads/A-Consensus.jpg)

[AMA with EHT members in askscience](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/bbknik/askscience_ama_series_we_are_scientists_here_to/). [deleted]. [imgur mirror](https://i.imgur.com/VUD77MY.jpg). This looks like the eclipse from dark souls 3.. Albeit it does turn. Holy shit, it looks exactly like interstellar, look closer and til your head to the left... get imaginative.

&#x200B;

You can see the event horizon and the accretation disk topped to the side.. Hey everyone!

If you'd like a higher resolution image, the National Science Foundation's press release has a 4k image.

https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/blackholes/downloads/A-Consensus.jpg

Another user posted a [link to the original RAW image](https://www.eso.org/public/archives/images/original/eso1907a.tif). It is 7416 x 4320, 183 Mb.

Hey everyone!

If you'd like a higher resolution image, the National Science Foundation's press release has a 4k image.

https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/blackholes/downloads/A-Consensus.jpg (4000x2330, 864kb)

Another user posted a [link to the original RAW image](https://www.eso.org/public/archives/images/original/eso1907a.tif). .tif, 7416x4320, 183 Mb.

The same RAW full-size .tif image, converted to .jpg, shrunk with JPEGmini pro, [7416x4320, 722KB.](https://ibb.co/YTBJ3Mb). Can someone explain why they said that the asymmetry in the light indicates that the black hole is rotating clockwise? From what I understand, the asymmetry would come from one part of the disk moving faster towards us than the other part, but if it's spinning clockwise, from our point of view, all the disk would be moving perpendicular to us (no speed towards us or away from us), so what causes the asymmetry, and how do we know it is spinning clockwise?. > Locking down an image of M87's supermassive black hole at such distance is comparable to photographing a pebble on the Moon, the scientists said.

> Over several days in April 2017, eight radio telescopes in Hawaii, Arizona, Spain, Mexico, Chile, and the South Pole zeroed in on Sag A* and M87.

> Knitted together, they formed a virtual observatory some 12,000 kilometres across—roughly the diameter of Earth.

[Source](https://m.phys.org/news/2019-04-astronomers-unveil-photo-black-hole.html?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app) 

This is absolutely amazing.. *unzip. If you hasn’t seen it yet, [this](https://youtu.be/zUyH3XhpLTo) is a great video to explain what you’re looking at here.. 'felt cute, might completely annihilate everything in my path later idk.'. Very cool photo, some great physics. 

But as a slightly disgruntled physics grad student I do get a bit tired of some of the tropes. 

"New era for astrophysics", as described in some outlets. Not really, in my opinion. It's very cool, but it's unsurprising from a physics perspective. It's consistent with physics we've know is true for a century. 

Another one I'm vaguely irritated by is "Einstein is *finally* vindicated". As if Eddington's famous experiment didn't happen in 1919. 

>"History books will be divided into the time before the image and after the image,” said Michael Kramer from the Max Planck Institute

Yeah, I don't thinks so

---

But not to take away from the tremendous hard work it took to get this image. 
It's just, we're overstating things here. 
We keep overstating recent accomplishments in fundamental physics.
It's a similar story with the recent LHC results.

It's almost as if we don't want to admit to ourselves that discoveries on fundamental physics made in the 21st century are not as groundbreaking at those made in the early 20th.

I want to get peoples reactions here, am I just getting old an cynical?. Can we just take a moment to appreciate that the post link for /r/Physics offers a livestream screenshot of the announcement, featuring the image, compared to the countless subreddits which had the image directly posted. Black hole sun  
Won't you come  
And wash away the rain  
Black hole sun  
Won't you come  
Won't you come. Fun fact about this is that it was an initiative coming from Esa which invested the biggest ammount of money and then Nasa publishes the news and everybody goes: "congratulations Nasa, always the best".... well, yes, nasa is definitely the best in marketing.. How did they get this image of my Ex Girlfriends heart?. Is that the photon sphere or the accretion disk?. History has been made, people.. So if I learned anything from Veritasium's video yesterday, [this is about the size of the actual black hole](https://imgur.com/zLjq8WH), right?. It's crazy how time works. A hundred years from now, this is gonna be looked back on as a relatively simple task.. Crazy how scientists and science enthusiats go nuts over images with such incredibly low detail. You really gotta admire how passionate these people are about discovery and exploration.. Do the hues convey any specific information, or is it just a gradient map applied to a grayscale image?. I have a few questions if anyone's knowledgeable:

* Why's it a bit oval-shaped? Is that just because it's spinning so fast? I thought the intense gravity would keep it nearly spherical no matter what.

* [How accurate is this?](https://imgur.com/py9r5rv) (I can't stress enough that I'm not an expert and this is a guess, if anyone's wondering, because I don't want to be responsible for misinformation in this thread.) Based on where the brightness of the ring begins and ends, how the break appears to be just left of center on the bottom, and how the right side of the break appears brighter than the left, that's how I'm assuming the direction of spin is traveling and the angle (roughly) at which I'm assuming we're looking at the accretion disk. Is that right? I based the size of the black hole on the width of the blackness divided by 2.6, as per Veritasium's video yesterday, unless I misunderstood something (which is likely). 

* Why don't we see the accretion disk more? Granted, no one led me to believe we would, but in artists' renderings you often see the warped image of the disk around the black hole and [a bright line across the center](https://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--gEFcGdWp--/c_scale,f_auto,fl_progressive,q_80,w_800/gyvaoclbwrn9zvwbphqz.png) where the disk actually is. Is this because this isn't based on visible light? Or because you wouldn't actually see that?

* What are the paler red clouds in the top left and bottom right of the image? Are they jets of radiation from the poles of the black hole, or something else?

* Why did they image a black hole in another galaxy before the one in our galaxy? Wouldn't it be easier to see ours?. Is this visible light?. Is this a Nobel prize winner? I understand it’s just an image but is it comparable to LIGO and gravitational waves in terms of just being able to take the picture?. I just like to think of what Stephen hawking's reaction would be like. How much older is the event horizon in our photograph  here compared to our current time here on Earth?. Pretty amazing!🙌🙌. I'm just wondering, I don't much of physics or image editing but does those edits mean anything? [https://imgur.com/a/TvQsgbA](https://imgur.com/a/TvQsgbA)

There are clearly lines around the black hole and two kind of "poles" (not sure about the terminology). Fantastic :D. Fucking wild man. Mote in God’s Eye. I work professionally with image & graphics processing. The other week I got this artifact while working. All surfaces in a 3D visualization got coated with an animated rainbow. Whilst it looked quite pretty it wasn't very useful so I found the bug and fixed it (it was an interpolation of a certain compressed data which went slightly wrong). The amount of data being read/written could be measured in MBs and probably took less than 1 ms to process.

&#x200B;

I'm thinking since they were dealing with 5 petabytes of data and processed for 2 years. Whats the chance that they got errors and are in fact hitting an artifact instead of a black hole?. Why is it out of focus?. I had two streams opened from USA and Europe. Is it me or images were different?. The gates of hell. The end of space and time.. My parents had the moon landing, I get an image of a black hole.

I think I win this round dad.. https://youtu.be/zUyH3XhpLTo


This person predicted the exact image.
Also he explains what are we seeing in this image.

I recommend to watch it.. [deleted]. Is the accreation disk hexagonal?

E: maybe not, flat edge on left is due to edge plus mirroring probs.. Why is it a ring? If the light are stars just about to be eaten by the black hole and it’s massive gravity,wouldn’t it be eating stars in 3 dimensions? Thus covering it all around?. Does anyone know if the light detected by the telescope is visible light? Or is it in other parts of the EM spectrum and then converted into the visible range so that we humans can see the image?. This is the first black hole picture(black hole from dota 2). just asking simply, could someon confirm or refute? There's an accretion disk surrounding the blackhole because that has lower energy than an accretion sphere and we just chose a black hole where the accretion disk is spinning perpendicular to our viewpoint so we could observe it?. It looks like a snip from a nuclear medicine coronary study.. Questions for those who know more:

- Does the brighter area at the bottom indicate that that's only place we have direct line of sight, or that that part of the disk is moving towards us?

- Are the two brighter areas on the top left and bottom right the jets emitted from the black hole? Or are we looking at something else? What about the other smudges on the outside?

- Is the fact the center isn't perfectly black, but in fact brighter than the edges of the picture just an artifact of data smoothing? Or did we actually receive light from that area?

- There seems to be a sort of gap in the brightest region, what could cause that?. It really is incredible. First of its kind and for all intents and purposes, a relatively clear image. 

Will the same photo be shot once the James Webb telescope is in place?. First photo of first image of a black hole\*. Holy shit. The guy from veritasium did an explanation video and predicted how this image would look like. I'm gonna watch that again. Not that I'll get it.. Where can I get an explanation of how the image was made? 

The bright patches there are actually X-ray emissions from the accretion disk?   Yes/no?

This is not a true-color image?     Yes/no?

This was not made by using light from the visual spectrum?  Yes/no? 

Is the black circle here an actual event horizon?

(given  that black holes are roughly the size of planets,) the actual event horizon of this BH is a one pixel in the center of the black circle?   Yes/no?. I want this to be like every single post on reddit for a full 24 hours. Legitimately.. Almost reminds me of Gargantua from *Interstellar*.. Can we estimate at what angle we're looking at the accretion disc?. Hi, layman here. We don't see the black hole because light can't escape. Does this mean the blackhole is pulling in light faster than the speed of light?. It’s just so amazing. So I did watch the veritasium's video and I am amazed that the image does look like the drawing that he had up. Now I am wondering about the radius and whether it does validate the theory of relativity, which it looks like it does but not totally sure if I am deducing it right without calculating the radius and that everything is predicted.. How can they get light particles out of this things gravity?. I was looking at the live stream at a simultaneous press conference for this at the university that the main organizer of the Event Horizons represents. we were all clapping and cheering when he revealed the image!. My question is, is the event horizon telescope now the most powerful camera ever created? 🤔. How many years in the past are we seeing this black hole from? 

Like the light we see must be super old, no?. So how did we get this? I thought black holes give off no light?. I love how low quality it is because I just think of how years from now, we might have the technology to capture a higher quality image, just as we have now to capture planets compared to years ago.. Can you help me understand why the material surrounding the hole is in a 2d disk? Why isn't a 3d ball of material sourounding the hole? I would think the hole itself would be completely obscured by material sounding it on 3 planes.. I am watching the story of the image on BBC4 at the moment.  An amazing story and mind twisting complexity.. you got some shit on your lens. I heard it was flat. This is amazing.. Looks more like an accretion disk from this angle.. "Enhance". Nobody there seems to notice it.. Existential crisis incoming. Right. Above. Their fucking. Heads.. This is not a photo of Black Hole, this is a blurred out photo of the One Ring.

One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all, and in the darkness bind them.. Why is there a orange ring around it? Is that the event horizon( am I correct?). Are we living in an anus?. amazing. Question: 

Can someone explain why there is a halo of light with a central area of blackness?

I understand that the massive amount of gravity forms an event horizon and light cannot escape. I don't understand why ONLY the central portion is blacked out. It seems like the entire thing should either be entirely black or entirely surrounded by light that is being consumed. Is it being caused by the gravitational warping of space? Is the light we see in the image actually behind the black hole? 

Help, my head hurts.. I have a dumb question about how they took the image; if the black hole is 55 million light years away, how can they get results if it would take light 110 million years for light to reach it and return to provide an image? In other words, how do physicists get pictures of things that far?. Do wormholes exist as well?. So, um, I shudder to ask this and I should probably look at some talks first, but... so far as I understand it, we don't have an image of a black hole, do we, right? We have an image of an accretion disk which can be explained as the result of a black hole.. Wonder what Ken Bone would think of this. Can’t fool me, that’s the Devils Anus on Sakaar.. So incredibly awesome!. Yaaaaay we got one!!!. I couldn't stop smiling every time the image came on screen. I hope this inspires so many people.. Would this image resolve the "firewall" paradox so named because information falling into the black hole is incinerated - and therefore lost - due to a conflict in the assumptions about black holes?

I am at work so cannot hunt for the reference link but I remember reading about it.

Thanks

edit: here is a link:  [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black\_hole\_information\_paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_hole_information_paradox). Who would have expected, so a black hole is essentially a bunch of physicists floating in the outer space, very cool.. We have come this far, and still, Flat-earther exists.. Enhance (*Tap tap tap*). It's beautiful.

Edit: i cried. it’s the Eye of Sauron.. Sauron. The first image of a black hole is Sauron.. I was sitting on the toilet with my laptop on my lap while watching the conference live!. Looks like a plasma toroid around the back hole. I feel like a quickly photoshop and this is very memeable. it's scary

put it away. Retarded question: why can't we focus it?. What exactly causes it to look like that and how was the photo taken?. People who think black holes suck don't understand the gravity of the situation.. Brown. Notice the photonic trojans.. Even craaaazier space dust 🎵. Black hole sun  
Won't you come  
And wash away the rain  
Black hole sun  
Won't you come  
Won't you come. I'm not too much of a physics guy but I'm looking at this out of curiosity and because I have some friends who love this sorta thing and mentioned it would be pictured today could anyone simply explain what exactly am I seeing in this picture and why does it look this way? 
I'm in awe but I'm not sure why;. What are the chances that the guy who photographs big foot also took the first photo of a black hole????. Didn't the game doom start off something like this?. As big as it is, it is tiny compared to the immense black hole that is in the center of our universe. However, this image is super cool.. Jeeze that is disappointing. All that work for a coffee stain I could make in photoshop in a few minutes.. Underwhelming, I guess pop sci has me G’d up for something more. Either way cudos to those involved! Still very impressive to have an irl image of a black hole, first time in human history!. This really doesn't look like it has the same effects as the Interstellar (movie) black hole.  Shouldn't there be more space warping effects?. So if this is the first image of a blackhole, does that mean that we have never looked through a telescope before and said "this spot is black for a mysterious reason, so there's something there, let's call it a black hole!"? That's how I thought it went historically.. [removed]. 😂 I’m done with twitter you guys at funnyyyy. The ring. First off there's actually no image of black hole what they're actually doing is tracking the normally a bending of light around the thing that can only be a black hole they think. Most people would look at that stuff believe it almost all galaxies have Whitley one black hole in the center and maybe thousands even millions are spread over there especially the Galaxy. Maybe we around a black hole 
And this maybe Can be the 9 planat. Idiot here that is interested in physics.
How can we get images from black holes? Is there a way of photographing without catching light?. Nipple. That shit better stay 50 million lightyears away.. Don't hate me smart physics people, but I had no idea they were that big!!. I need a banana for scale.. What a decade for physics! 

&#x200B;

Let's take care of this pesky dark matter and dark energy in the 2020's, shall we?. [removed]. Experimental data confirming stuff we were pretty sure about but hadn't seen yet seems to be the theme of this decade.. Dark matter. > I wonder what we will find a few years from now.

The elusive evidence of Trump's collusion with Russia. My money is on:

* Axions
* Sterile neutrinos
* Extraterrestrial life forms in our solar systems. That the earth is flat, the moon is made of parmesan cheese, and cats rule the universe.. Wormholes. Maybe by 2030 we'll be able to venture right inside one!. Gravitational effects so strong it sucks in all of my attention and sight.. It's blowing my mind right now just trying to imagine the size of this monster. An accretion disc the size of our solar system that would instantly fry anything a human has ever laid their hands on. Me either mainly because it is all over the front page. That’s 58 million years old in terms of light years. Could be a lot different now. Just like the simulations!. Please care to explain why is one side dark and other side light?. Have they imaged Sagittarius A? Or is that planned for next?. So no surprises, right?. What prevented us from imaging the super massive black hole at the center of our galaxy? Wouldn't that be easier/closer?. So, the obvious and most important question, does this black hole have an actual name? Are we going to just keep calling it “the supermassive black hole at the center of M87”? We’re scientists here, folks, we name stuff.. I'd have figured there'd be too much dust in the way to get any sort of image of Sagittarius A\*.. > Edit 2: The EU conference said (just now) that they are still processing the Sagittarius A* image

I was hoping this was in the works!!!. It is actually much more complicated question that you would think. This explains it very clearly.

https://youtu.be/zUyH3XhpLTo. Someone can correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe it looks this way because the light from the accretion disk bends around the back side of the black hole. So this is what we get regardless of the angle of the disk with respect us.. [deleted]. This is a good question. 
I’m also curious. 

!remindme 24h. I think the term black "hole" is misleading and causes people to think of it like a manhole cover removed in the road, when as far as I can phathom, its more like a black sphere. [This answer on the AskScience AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/bbknik/askscience_ama_series_we_are_scientists_here_to/ekk8lm9?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x) might be helpful:

> Our best guess for the inclination of M87 is between 18 and 30 degrees, meaning we are effectively looking "down the barrel" of the black hole.. Do you have the papers. it looks like the servers crashed. Yea, the traffic to read those papers is too much right now.  Are they published anywhere else?. Do you know if they are releasing any code?. Yes.. It's the black hole's yolk. Black holes are just anti-eggs.. Kind of. 

I'm going to disagree with the other posters here who are giving an emphatic "yes." The emission ring seen from the image is synchrotron radiation emitted by relativistic charged particles in a magnetic field very close to the event horizon. While it is true that the accretion disk is supplying those particles, the synchrotron radiation is distinct from the thermal radiation emitted from the disk as a whole due to its temperature. Rather we're looking a specific radio peak occurring due to a specific physics process that happens just before matter is consumed.

In essence, you're seeing a picture more-or-less corresponding to light scattered by photon "almost" orbits and not an image that tells you what the disk looks like like in the movie Interstellar.. Yes, but it's mostly the part of the disk that's behind the black hole. The light being bent around the hole. So the "top" part of the image is actually the upper surface of the back side of the accretion disk and the "bottom" part of the image is the under surface of the back side of the accretion disk.. I wanna see an imagine of one ejecting matter out from its poles that reach twice the diameter of its own galaxy now.. Double major in engineering.

While physics is IMO way more impressive, literally the whole world thinks engineers are hot shit.

Sadly, employment is harder to come by as a physicist.

Physics will give you the training to be impressive, engineering will give you the title to look impressive. People eat that shit up.

Maybe you'll be fortunate enough to land a physics job right away and have that career that pays all your bills, or maybe you'll work for some mega corp that promotes engineers left and right because it is run by engineers and engineers are obviously so fucking smart that they can do anything.

You will never be promoted to lead a team of engineers (you didn't graduate from an ABET program and aren't an FE or PE - so you can't possibly fathom the mysteries of engineering), but an engineer will be promoted to lead a team of physicist.. "Hey, they've taken the first ever image of a black hole. Better make sure the only version we're going to allow on the physics subreddit is a shitty low res picture of a projector screen."


Seriously?. Is it just me or have they only answered like 3 questions?. Flairs it 

>NO REPOSTS!

Posted on every single sub on the front of /r/all right now (including every single default sub).. Mods are jokes no matter what sub you're in. > The top is darker because that's where the accretion disk is spinning away (very fast), thus redshifting it, while the other side is blue-shifted and hence depicted as brighter

I think you're maybe blending together redshift and doppler beam theories. Redshift creates color change, doppler beaming creates brightness change.. Why is the redshift and blueshift not represented by any colour difference in the image? Did they correct for it?. It's the dark sign!. I think I do see the disk. There's a part that crosses the black hole that's grey, not black. I believe we are seeing the accretion roughly disk side-on, so the bottom half is the part that is moving towards us, and the top half is moving away. If that is right, then in the left and right parts of the image we are actually seeing the part of the accretion disk that is behind the black hole relative to us, but the light is warped round the sides making it look like a ring around the black hole's shadow.. When is Sag A image going to be released. Hey!  /r/dontputyourdickinthat.  Wrong vacuum.. enjoy yourself. A little bit. But you also make a good point. I *do* think this is a momentous occasion that will be remembered as the first time mankind ever photographed a black hole, and it's worth getting excited about (especially to the extent that it gets/keeps the general population interested in physics and science in general). But yeah, it's not going to change the world or anything.. Well, generally you are right. The thing is that if you want young people to get excited about physics and to make them want to dedicate their lives to it you have to present physics as exciting. You can't tell them that the only they will do in their lives is to try and validate the predictions of the physics of the last century. You can't have progress otherwise. Physics would sound very dull if it were presented like that.

The only discovery that could rival those of the last century is only, arguably, a quantum theory of gravity. There just isn't that much to discover and I'm trying to say it carefully. We understand parts of the world pretty well and are able to predict accurately what will happen in most events so it is reasonably safe to assume that there isn't much left to be discovered about the world that immediately surrounds us. The only impactful discoveries we could make are in special conditions such as in a singularity, or in super high energy particle physics and we all know how hard that will be, perhaps impossible in a long, long time.. Nah dude, I made the same exact argument in another thread. This is an amazing success for experimentalists and provided a ton of new data. But it's not what they're hyping it to be.. The first press conference was through esa as far as I remember.

And at least German and French sources talk about esa, don't watch too much english news tho so I couldn't talk about that.. Photon sphere itself wouldn’t be visible.. Accretion disk. And this is just the first image. Moving forward, it's crazy to think what more we will be able to capture.. How _does_ time work?. Which is precisely why it's important to always recognize the knowledge and tools that past scientists had at their disposal when we judge their efforts.

The oil drop experiment is relatively easy to do these days (although still a pain as any undergraduate will tell you), but it was still a massive accomplishment when it was first performed.. The most important thing here isn't how it looks.. it's that it confirmed a big part of General Relativity which while was agreed upon until now wasn't proven. I mean.. black holes have always been objects of fascination. They were one of the bravest predictions in physics history. It's amazing how from first principles we were able to predict how it will look and behave so accurately. Black holes.. common.. this is unreal. I believe they took the radio wavelengths, then scaled and shifted the spectrum into the visible range.. For your third question, there isn't enough resolution to see thin structures like that. The GRMHD column in this [figure](https://iopscience-event-horizon.s3.amazonaws.com/2041-8205/875/1/L4/downloadFigure/figure/apjlab0e85f10_lr.jpg) shows a model of what the image might look like with higher resolution, and the rows below it show what it looks like with different imaging techniques.. It is all not so very accurate. It is the first image, very low resolution. Compared with Hubble images, this is something like 10 pixels of Hubble data. The data is also selected, which might introduce some systematic error.

We will need some better data to get more resolution. For that they need satellites and/or long time exposures. But I am certain that this project will start new discoveries.. No, radio waves.. Radio. 1.3mm. The collaboration of all the different teams and telescopes alone is worth a nobel prize. This will definitely get one.. [deleted]. They forgot to tap the screen before taking the picture.. It's an object with roughly 0.012 light years in diameter (the event horizon/shadow) that is 58 million light years away from us.. Previous images would not have shown any structure at all. The reason we can see the ring and the little blobs on the side is because it  *is* in focus.. They used an android, not an iPhone.. Images are the same but European stream used metric system while U.S. stream had whales and football fields.. One of them is the real thing and the other was a model of what they thought it might look like. Mind blowing.. Well, there is space and time inside the event horizon, as far as our theory goes.. To be fair, we know the maths well enough to be able to predict how it should look quite accurately. Still a good video though.. Did you really just [copy this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/bblu6v/the_first_picture_of_a_black_hole_opens_a_new_era/ekjmuok/) from u/Andromeda321 without giving credit?. They aren't stars, the light is from superheated plasma falling into the black hole. Collisions in accreting matter and conservation of angular momentum cause it to flatten into a disk.. No, because the gravity of the black hole bends spacetime and so the path that light takes is not just a direct staight path to us (although light is travelling in a "straight line" it's just that spacetime isn't "straight").

Watch this video it explains it well:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zUyH3XhpLTo. As matter is drawn in, conservation of angular momentum tends to force things into a single plane, forming a disc or ring.

Additionally, light is bent around the blackhole, so the ring you see around it, is actually the bent light of part of the disc behind it.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zUyH3XhpLTo. This was all done in the radio.. 1.3 mm wavelength.. detailed explanation of the image and what we are seeing

https://youtu.be/zUyH3XhpLTo. The inclination of M87 was assumed to be ∼17° and it was chosen, in part, because it was assumed the disk would be close to circular.  They will need to study other BHs to see if their assumptions were true or just by chance.. To my knowledge, probably not? The extreme bending of spacetime means that above and below the black hole, we’re seeing *around* the black hole, the top and the bottom of the *back* of theaccretion disc are now around the top and bottom of the black hole.. [deleted]. I believe its the light being bent around the black hole that you are seeing. I don't believe this has anything to do with that, unfortunately. The paradox is about things falling into the event horizon, but we can only see a general area. Beautiful. The universe doesn't really have a center. Galaxy?. Underwhelming? How so?. How can an image that’s pretty much beyond comprehension be underwhelming?. Well it's not exactly an HD image. The effects are there, but obscured by the low resolution.. We can actually only see this "doughnut" effect because of the space warping effects. The top of this ring is actually the light from accretion disk behind the black hole, bent overtop of it by gravity.. tHIs DOeSt LoOk LiKE ThE MoViEs. No, historically it started as a theoretical prediction.. They're much too small (in angular terms) to see like that. This is arguably the first direct detection.. The black hole at the center of our galaxy has an angular size of around 50 μas (microarcseconds). For reference, that's the size of a penny on the surface of the moon as viewed from earth. That's the largest black hole in the sky, and the one they imaged here is about half that angular size. The rest are orders of magnitude smaller. We've never been able to image one largely because black holes are small and (relatively) dim.. There are lots of images that have a pixel containing a black hole, but this is the first that shows some structure.. [removed]. **"You better keep your distance you big, light bending, physics breaking bitch! You hear me?"**. Um hate to break it to you but our galaxy has one of these, too, and it’s much *much* closer.. But it wants to be your friend, it's trying to bring us closer to it. It's trying its best but it's just not enough.. Ha, they get bigger than that.. Turns out we had other plans. Yes please. It does seem that we have been planning to make these events happen. Are we doing something about dark matter currently? Do we have any idea how to observe it?. This black hole evidence and the LIGO evidence is getting pretty damning for particle dark matter.... At least in terms of constraining what it isnt (otherwise those two experiments might have been different).

If we have really good evidence for whats going on with GR at the most extrmeme cases (i.e. black holes merger and now this photo of black hole accretion disk), we're probably just missing a shitton of information about galactic scale distributions at this point.

I dont think dark energy will be figured out for a while until gravity and quantum can be reconciled.  And if were right about GR at the edge of a black hole, then its gonna take some new science to figure out how things worked in nearly extreme conditions so long ago.. You're a special salty snowflake, aren't you?

Also, here you go: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kxG8uJUsWU&t=40s. Despite what Schiff said repeatedly it never materialized.. I just heard the Bwa bwa bwa bwaaaa sound that plays when you fail on the price is right. No aliens yet. >© 

Warm holes. Why are you downvoted xDDD. Daily Mail: "Do black holes cause ADHD and Blindness?". Just a quick reminder that BHs don't suck.

Yes, stuff falls into them sometimes (not as often as you'd think), but they aren't vacuum cleaners.

**Edit**: more scientific statement: Take, for example, the Earth. Stuff falls into it sometimes (cosmic rays, meteors, etc.) but lots of stuff goes right past it. A BH really isn't any different. Sure stuff might hit it if its trajectory is right, but, for example, we have seen the trajectory of a number of stars orbiting sgr a\*. They might happen to fall in (in particular if one of them "kicks" another one in), but in general, sgr a\* doesn't suck them in. See [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TF8THY5spmo) video of the center of our galaxy. The loop is only a few seconds long, but it is very sped up. The actual observations span 20 years.. That's what she said the first time.. [deleted]. [removed]. The EU conference said (just now) that they are still processing the Sagittarius A* image. Things seem quite consistent with the expectations.. Apparently not. Einstein has done it again.. And no alarms. M87 is passing way slower across our sky compared to Sag A* which is traversing way more rapidly.

So for Sag A* to be imaged in the same quality we need more measurements (and here comes the catch) with the same weather conditions of all involved stations across the globe.. That's what I have been thinking too but nowhere have i seen it given a proper name. We should call it M87-SUCC or something. [deleted]. Hey, I have actually seen the video. What I would expect to see however, is both a halo around the black hole as we do see, but also a line crossing the black hole, as the light leaving the accretion disk and coming straight to us would still be visible. Is that not correct?. Do you know if there is another video explaining it... I know it sounds realy stupid, but I never like the way he presents.... Correct.
 https://youtu.be/zUyH3XhpLTo 
This video by veritasium explains it fully.. I don’t think that’s what OP is asking. He’s wondering about the ring that runs across the “belly” of the black hole. 
The light from the other side bends around and we see it on ring, this is true. But I believe the light from the “front” of the accretion disk is too dim in comparison, to pick up.

(I may be wrong, it’s just a guess from what I understand so far). Ooooh that got me excited!. From pouring over the EHT folks papers the last two days, I don't believe this is correct. The photon ring sourced by sychrotron radiation appears nearly circular from any observed orientation, what changes is which side is brighter or dimmer due to beaming. The accretion disk itself is considering "optically thin" at the wavelengths measured.

For an example of an equatorial view, see Fig 5. here: https://arxiv.org/abs/0909.5431. When I say from the top I mean with respect to the accretion disc.. Holy shot we do have a top down view. And from the rest of the replies it does seem to be quite a lucky view to have.. https://iopscience.iop.org/issue/2041-8205/875/1

list of papers

http://archive.is/2ZSUU

archived site. A hug of death that wasn't caused by reddit is pretty impressive. Here's a link (scroll to the bottom for papers) https://iopscience.iop.org/journal/2041-8205/page/Focus_on_EHT. Look at my other reply. Not sure, don't recall them saying they would. They did say all the data would be made publicly available in a few days, so maybe they'll release code then? It could also be somewhere in one of the papers, I haven't looked through them in detail.. Finally, a real man of science. Is this the egg from one of those spherical chickens that live in a vacuum?. Surely it's the white?. And the scattering is bound within the event horizon? (Correct me if I’m wrong somewhere). This isn't correct. The emission ring in the photo comes from synchrotron radiation emitted from infalling relativistic charged particles close to the event horizon which corresponds to light scattered off "almost" photon orbits.

While the accretion disk does provide the source for the infalling matter, the photo is not a representation of the thermal light emitted from the disk itself.. Physicists have the strangest kinks. https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/0007/m87jet_hst_big.jpg

This is M87's jet 4,900 light years across taken by Hubble in July of 2000.. Have you seen the [jets imaged from Cygnus A](https://astronomynow.com/2016/10/25/hotspots-in-cygnus-a-an-active-galactic-nucleus/)?. I'm actually physics teaching lol. I'll be graduating next year. If I had the money and time I defitnely would lol.. This is what it would look like otherwise  https://imgur.com/a/UNJiLHh. https://i.imgur.com/dGkkiUU.png

Yep, that's the only image they have... Totally. Did you ask this just after they had started answering?. https://imgur.com/a/UNJiLHh. NO U. [deleted]. Instead of a doppler shift it's doppler beaming. The beaming affects the apparent brightness/luminosity instead of the frequency of the lightwave. It's akin to how the light from a lighthouse is brighter when the lamp is rotating towards the observer as opposed to when it's rotating away. Check this page out: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relativistic_beaming

Edit: Oh and I read somewhere that the wavelength in the image apparently goes as low as radio wave, so in a sense the color did get corrected in the image :p. [deleted]. But everything I'm reading about this says things like "the spin direction points away from the Earth", or "it is rotating clockwise as seen from Earth", implying that Earth is roughly in the axis of rotation of this black hole. And they also said that the jets that emerge from the black hole point directly towards us, and the jets follow the axis of rotation, right? 

I think I'm misunderstanding something.

Edit: ok, I found my answer in the paper: the axis of rotation isn't exactly pointing towards us.

> Walker et al. (2018) estimated that the angle between the approaching jet and the line of sight is 17°. If the emission is produced by a rotating ring with an angular momentum vector oriented along the jet axis, then the plasma in the south is approaching Earth and the plasma in the north is receding. This implies a clockwise circulation of the plasma in the source, as projected onto the plane of the sky.. Yeah that vacuum is a little too big. >Well, generally you are right. The thing is that if you want young people to get excited about physics and to make them want to dedicate their lives to it you have to present physics as exciting. 

But the you end up with someone like me. I feel slightly betrayed by the outreach. I grew up believing that discoveries made at the LHC would change the world. I thought 
if I only understood string theory I'd see that they're on the brink of a great revolution about how we conceptualise fundamental physics. 

"Breakthroughs are imminent" was the message. Get involved and **you** can be part of it! So I did. 

Well I now think it was, slightly, dishonest to give me such an impression when I was young. It's not true! Though I think science communicators believe it's somewhat true.
I probably would have picked a different path in my scientific career knowing what I know now. 

Fundamental physics just isn't a fruitful area of research right now. Mabye I'm wrong. But that's the conclusion I'm coming to at the end of a PhD on it. 
Now I think I'm going to leave particle physics research, and I feel quite sad about that fact.

Sorry for venting in such an odd place. Fall into a blackhole, and it doesn’t.. [Ha](https://i.redd.it/k2wfa7gxhar21.png). [deleted]. wait, what does that mean?? how are we “seeing” it?. Fingerprint on the lens. [deleted]. You think someone asking that question is going to understand your answer?. You think someone asking that question is going to understand your answer?. You think someone asking that question is going to understand your answer?. It would look the same either way, unit of measure does not change the quantity of a measure.. True, just that all valid spacetime paths are towards the singularity ... meaning there is no path in spacetime you can take, no direction you can face in that will be a path outside of the event horizon.

Although... at the singularity then we really are at the end of space and time - that's where everything falls apart.. But what about at the singularity. Nobody knows.. Don’t space and time “switch”, such that you are left with one direction in space?. Is the radiation intensity of the accretion disk highest in that part of the spectrum?. Even moving faster than the speed of light, you couldn't escape it. Total trap there. Sure it does, in relation to all of the the galaxies. It wasn't a big bang. But they are all moving away from central point and that point is not a big bang, but rather a very very big Black Hole.. It’s probably due to years of artists depicted images and me not understanding physics beyond a physics 1/pop sci level. 

It’s a great achievement but I guess I’m arrogant to the fact. Still a great achievement though and I’m sure for scientist studying it it’s a huge step up. Tbh The more I stare at the image the more I feel it impacts me. It’s quiet amazing. Read my comment you replied to again, and focus on the last sentence or so.. So you mean "yes"?. *massive undetected asteroid about to impact earth, laughing*

“You dumb bitch”. *teleports behind Earth* 

Sorry kid, nothing personal.. I'm just kidding plz don't eat us we nasty. Yeah, but that's only a measly 4.6 million times the mass of our sun.. That’s insane!!!. Quick google search suggests the largest we've detected is 17 billion times, so not a whole lot bigger so far, unless I googled poorly.. Sagittarius and JWST. My grandfather used to say that if a blind man looks at a black hole, he'll gain his vision again, RIP grandpa, your wise words will always be remembered. nothing essential oils cant fix. black holes cause autism.. Duh!. Was that on their recruitment page?. I don't know but they certainly spew out foreign poisonous spider immigrants that will eat your dog and steal your job.. My bones hurt every time I come across someone ranting off to people about how the milky way is "held together" or "orbits" Sagittarius A*. I'm expecting a fresh wave of that with these photos.. However, stuff IS actively falling into this one. It is consuming matter at a rate of about 1 solar mass every 10 years (nine earth masses per day).. Isn’t the bh gravity super strong? Or is it super strong past the event horizon.. I'm gonna need a scientific definition of sucking then, mainly for elevating my trash talk game.. Technically, all objects with mass and/or energy suck (i.e. they curve spacetime). In a way, everything is always falling towards everything else.

Everything sucks! You heard it here first.

Just not enough to curve the trajectory of every passing object into a collision, the way a vacuum cleaner would.. Not a physicist here, just a simple layman.

So black holes are essentially like other celestial bodies? Things can go around them provided they have the speed, distance, or mass to do so as they travel through the blackholes gravitational field? Only, for a black hole, the force of gravity to other objects is much more strong so the velocity would have to be faster, the distance at which other objects are attracted to it is increased, and the variety of mass almost means nothing for a blackhole of almost infinite mass?. > the radius of the black hole

Does this mean the event horizon, or literally the singularity itself?. [removed]. [removed]. Is the  Sagittarius A\* image likely to be more detailed, considering it's relatively much closer to earth?. Fantastic. More to look forward to, then!. Anyone know when we could expect the image of sag A* to be released?. You can obviously reverse that to have an undistorted (=classical) view of the event horizon, including the accretion disk. Wonder, when we're going to see that one.. SUCC...Supermassive Undulating Cosmic Carnivore. Fuck yeah I like it. M87-SUCC it is.. Upon further research dear sir, it appears you are correct about the naming convention for SMBH’s. But I’m secretly sticking with SUCC-87.. My guess is that line is too thin (and maybe comparably dim) to be resolved by the telescope array.. Fine details like that could be blurred into nothingness.  It's hard for us laypeople to discern from the picture itself and a short explainer on the optics of black hole accretion disks to really say anything because we know nothing about what sort of distortion could occur from the imaging and compositing from the telescope itself and intra-space interference (noise from stuff between here and the black hole).

We'll have to wait for a knowledgeable write up from other experts or the team itself, I think.. Disclaimer I do not really know anything. I have just seen the video but I would guess that the ring so small and blackhole so far we can not actually see that.. [If you look at this high res image,](https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/blackholes/downloads/A-Consensus.jpg) it appears there might possibly be that from top left to bottom right. It is just feint.

You have to remember this object is ~52 million light year away.. If we were looking at the equator of M87\* and the spin were pointing up the page, rather than a dim-North and bright-South asymmetry like you do in this photo, you would see a bright-West and dim-East asymmetry.

As far as producing the famous Interstellar "crossing," I don't believe you'd see it. First, the accretion disk itself is invisible in the EHT photo. Rather you are seeing 1.3 mm synchrotron radiation from relativistic infalling charged matter in a magnetic field. That light is then thrown into near photon orbits and scatters away. The effect of this is that the emission ring looks like a circle from all angles even if which side of is brightest depends on the orientation we view it from.. While I personally love the veritasuim videos, I respect your preference. I would say this video isn’t presented in the same format and is much more of a straight forward informative description than the usual pop science video format. Just if you wanted to give it a try :). According to the afforementioned YouTube video, there are two rings of light, one is from the accretion disk, one is just from photons. I think the smaller ring is perhaps too small or dim to be resolved, as someone else suggested above.. [deleted]. Thanks. Wow, that is the first time I've seen a six (!) part paper. The same thing happened when LIGO released their papers. I was in a conference room at Fermilab watching the livestream and everyone had their laptops open trying to download the papers. I saw someone a few rows a head of me finally get the main one so I emailed him and had him send it around.. It's so good that it happened though. Not sure I'm following you. All the light we see, like in the photo, never actually crosses the event horizon. Rather, much of the light briefly mimics an orbit at 1.5 times the radius of the black hole. If their angle was too steep, they fall in and we don't see them: This is the shadow. If the angle is shallow, they get tossed out at some point (the light very close to the shadow might do many "orbits" before getting kicked out) and leaves at some wild angle. Since tiny changes in initial photon angle lead to very different final photon angles, the photon sphere is seen as a ring from any orientation we look at the black hole. The only difference is that different parts of the ring will be brighter or dimmer.. Google tells me M87 is only 60 light years in radius... so this seems to be much more than 2x the galaxy's radius, yeah?. Good luck brother/sister.

What level are you teaching?. It's a shame that you didn't select a better image then. You don't need to go with the first one there if there are better quality ones.. [removed]. AMA began 8 hours ago, I commented 1 hour ago. Reading the separate wiki pages ([Redshift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift) / [Relativistic Beaming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relativistic_beaming)), they're more or less the same thing. Both are light distortion in extreme spacetime circumstances.. **Relativistic beaming**

Relativistic beaming (also known as Doppler beaming, Doppler boosting, or the headlight effect) is the process by which relativistic effects modify the apparent luminosity of emitting matter that is moving at speeds close to the speed of light. In an astronomical context, relativistic beaming commonly occurs in two oppositely-directed relativistic jets of plasma that originate from a central compact object that is accreting matter.  Accreting compact objects and relativistic jets are invoked to explain the following observed phenomena: x-ray binaries, gamma-ray bursts, and, on a much larger scale, active galactic nuclei (AGN).  (Quasars are also associated with an accreting compact object, but are thought to be merely a particular variety of AGN.)

Beaming (short for relativistic beaming) affects the apparent brightness of a moving object just as a lighthouse affects the appearance of its light source: the light source appears dim or unseen to a ship except when the rotating lighthouse beacon is directed towards a ship, where it then appears very bright.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. That's alright, I enjoy an honest conversation. I understand that you feel "betrayed", sort of, but it really is the only way to make people passionate about it and it is important to attract young minds.. you can't have the sort of progress humanity is hoping for if everyone wants to go into banking and business because of the lifestyle. The good thing about studying physics is that it just makes you smart. It teaches you to think in certain ways. You can do anything after that if you don't want to go into research.. everyone would love hiring a physicist.

Physics could still be something you are very passionate about even if you don't do it for a living. I left my mechanical engineering course for economics due to reasons very similar to yours. I am still very passionate about physics and science in general.. In that case I'd say there is *space* for flexible interpretations.. In that case I'd say there is *space* for flexible interpretations.. time.exe has stopped working

Windows can check online for a solution to the problem. That's not too far off from our most robust understanding of time.. Using radio telescopes. Radio astronomy is a huge area and has been for a long time. It's observed using one single frequency only IIUC, so the colors map to intensity, not to varying frequency.

Look at these parabolas https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_telescope  They don't look like mirrors - because they focus radio waves, not visible light. :). It's like resolving a pebble on the surface of the moon.. It’s where our *theory* falls apart, mostly. It doesn’t mean anything for what’s actually physically there.. We don’t, but there is no particular reason to expect it to physically exist. The singularity is just where our theory breaks down.. Yeah, but I think this shouldn’t be taken too literally. I am not an expert, though.. It depends on the source. The reason they used millimeter wavelengths was because they needed the resolution. Very Long Baseline Interferometry is only currently possible at radio and millimeter wavelengths, not so in the visible or infrared. Longer radio wavelengths were not useful because the resolution scales with the wavelength. You can't go to longer baselines because of the size of the Earth, so you push to higher frequency.. You would be able to escape from inside the event horizon if you exceeded lightspeed. By definition, the EH is the region where the escape velocity exceeds the speed of light. But the speed needed grows a lot (probably exponentially, not sure) the closer you get to the singularity, and again, it’s theoretical so no real-life examples exist. 
But if you’re talking about the singularity itself, then yeah, total trap. The galaxies? Galaxies aren't moving away from anything. The universe is moving away from itself and from no central point of reference, everything is moving equally away. Or, wants to, but that's only the case for the most massive cosmic structures in the universe. A black hole has nothing to do with any of it.. Everything is moving away from everything. From our perspective ut all moves away from US. True, I suppose it is difficult to fathom without knowing exactly what you are looking at.

Two points that you can try to wrap your head around. If you had to scale how far this actually is relative to something on earth, it’s like taking a pa that’s in Washington from Brussels in Belgium. To do this, they basically used a telescope the size of the Earth.. Yes, you can't casually see black holes through a telescope, this one took a lot of effort and they were aiming at precise points where they knew there would probably be one.. ***"I'm about to end this man's whole career"***. They had us in the first half, not gonna lie.. Pussy ass black hole.. The event horizon gets bigger, but the singularity itself is a single point. 17 billion is a hell of a lot bigger than 6 billion, dude.. THEY'RE PUTTIN' CHEMICALS IN THE BLACK HOLES TURNIN' THE FRICKIN DARK MATTER GAY. I think black holes caused the Monsanto guy's cancer, not roundup. Greens are protesting already. prohibit black holes, Incalculable risks, no one is even insuring against black holes.

/s. Wsb?. Milky Way is obviously held together by caramel. Haha, yep. It's partly other stars and partly DM.. Er, this is kinda news to me - are the black holes at the center of galaxies not analogous to stars in star systems?. Isn't it "held together" by mostly dark matter?. Right, because the density of stars near the SMBH is (probably) much much higher than near ours. This is a function of astrophysical quantities like the age of the galaxy and recent mergers.. As someone with only a passing knowledge of physics, statements like this hurt my brain. What does it mean to say stuff happens at regular time rate (solar mass per day) near a black hole? Is it with respect to some apriori time frame? Everything about this universe is confusing.. Yes. But just like how the sun's gravity is super strong compared to the Earth, the Earth isn't sucked in. The same thing works for the black holes, only they are even stronger, while also being much smaller.. It is super strong, but gravity doesn’t exactly cause motion along the direction of the force.  Think of an atom - the electron orbits even though the force on it is pulling it to the center.  What happens is both the electron and proton (or sun and planet) orbit around the center of mass of the system.  When you have two objects with kinetic energy and gravitational potential energy, you can solve for the equations of motion using the lagrangian (it’s a special mathematical function that is the kinetic energy minus potential energy).  This will give you an “effective potential” that was different from the gravitational potential.  So instead of being pulled, what you really feel is being stuck in a circular rut.  If you try to move either direction out of the rut, it’s too steep and pushes you back to the stable circular orbit.  I wish I could give you a physical reason why and not the mathematical, but basically the planet is moving straight and gravity causes the path to curve around in a circle.  Gravity would be the centripetal acceleration.. Depends on how big it is and what you mean by super strong gravity. You could potentially pass through the event horizon of a very large black hole and not even feel it.. Yes, it's quite strong as you get close to the black hole, but a lot of stuff isn't close to the black hole.  If you replaced the sun with a black hole of equal mass, you won't notice anything special.  All the planets' orbits would be the same.  Now if you started to get really close to the black hole, shit would get pretty weird.

With supermassive black holes, they are actually quite gentle in the sense that tidal forces even as you cross the event horizon are pretty chill.  (In other words, you don't get turned into a long piece of human spaghetti until later.). For smaller black holes, tidal forces can be pretty intense as you get close to the event horizon and you may get turned into spaghetti BEFORE you cross the event horizon.  After the event horizon, we don't really know what happens.  General relativity says nothing special happens until you get crushed near the singularity.  Theoretical frameworks taking quantum field theory into account are as yet incomplete but there are suggestions something special might happen right at the event horizon.. Sucking (verb): See yo mama.. No.

The point is that a 5 solar mass black hole has the same gravitational effect as a 5 solar mass star, if you are far away from it. It doesn't pull more strongly because it is a black hole, it is just more compact so you can potentially get much closer to it, where extreme things happen that don't happen close to a star.. > Just not enough to curve the trajectory of every passing object into a collision, the way a vacuum cleaner would.

I'm not following this distinction between sucking or not acting as a vacuum cleaner.  You leave a powerful vacuum cleaner on and leave a small clump of dirt in its range (or just slowly moving near in its range), it will fall in.  You flick that clump of dirt past the vacuum cleaner at high speed (and not directly angled to go in to the vacuum) it may just get deflected a little by the vacuum.

I think it's clear to state that things far outside the event horizon are just effected by normal Newtonian gravity (e.g., stars can orbit like planets orbit; or be in hyperbolic orbit like some comets that just approach once, get deflected and never come back) or could go along an orbit that brings it inside the event horizon at which point it can't escape due to GR effects (or semi-classical model where escape velocity is greater than speed of light).. Yeah that's basically right. One thing, the force of gravity near a BH isn't stronger than normal. It's just a function of its mass as usual.. The event horizon. We can guess at the singularity, and it would presumably be a point or a small-ish ring.. [removed]. It’s likely to be harder to see as a matter of fact. The accretion disk (the big glowy ring) is smaller and dimmer around Sagittarius A*. The resolution will likely be around 5 times higher, but I’d say this will be the most spectacular of the two images. Looking around, it appears that Sagittarius A* is about 50μas while the black hole at the center of M87 is about 7μas so the Sagittarius A* image *should* be more detailed in terms of resolution. It's significantly closer, but the M87 black hole is significantly more massive that Sag A* (slightly diminishing the distance benefit), and the image of Sag A* will be obscured by galactic gasses. 

Sag A* takes up a larger part of our sky (a balancing act between distance and mass), but the extinction due to the light passing through our galaxy will be severely detrimental to the image.. Here you go! I did like you said!
https://ibb.co/N9jjf2k

I realize this isn't what you actually meant. Lol.. Would it experience any amount of significant redshifting being so close to the black hole as well (and essentially having to climb out of the gravity well, instead of just going around it)? And thus, perhaps, the detectors used wouldn't be looking at the correct wavelengths?. According to this, we actually do see it top down

https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/bbknik/askscience_ama_series_we_are_scientists_here_to/ekk8lm9/. Cool, thanks for the info! Will give it a try tonight :). Nono, not the photon ring, that is definitely too dim to pick up. OP is talking about the actual accretion ring. Go back to the aforementioned YouTube video. The white disk representing the accretion disk has a “front side” that runs across the black hole. Kind of like Saturn’s ring. OPs asking why we cannot see that.. Huh, that's higher than I thought! I can imagine it would blanket the image muddying it a bit, bit it probably won't be resolved like the ring is.. That's awesome. Okay, now I understand. The light visible to us is not crossing the horizon. The light that does, not visible to us. Thanks. yes they are huge. Thanks. High school.. Then we get "Why are the mods deleting a 700 upvoted front page link?!"  Can't please everyone.. >Yes that’s the image on the projector, that’s the only image

This was more about the commenter saying that the only photo was a low res photo on a projector... It's understandable that there would only be one or two photos right now. But it explicitly stated in the thread that they would start at 2 PM EDT.. Ifyousayso.. Someone said it is like 50 of these dots . from the moon.. I don´t think so GR predicts the existence of the singularity but fails to describe it. Since GR is very well tested I think it is reasonable to believe there is something special happening at r=0 maybe not necessarily something as extraordinary as tearing of spacetime but at least something interesting.. From inside of the event horizon, you cannot escape even going the speed of light. The definition of an event horizon has nothing to do with escape velocity, that's a classical thing that doesn't actually apply to a black hole. It's a misleading interpretation. 

Once you've crossed the event horizon, that *is* the trap. At the point, even if you could travel the speed of light or faster, you would just go straight to the singularity. You don't have to reach it at all to be trapped, but you will get to it no matter what as soon as you cross that border.

It's not a matter of speed, it's a matter of the future. The singularity is an inescapable destination in your future once you've passed, you would have to be able to travel freely through time to escape it. Speed has nothing to do with it.. Guess we are just going to have to agree to disagree. Nice chat though.. >"I'm about to end man's whole career"

FTFY. WHAT CAREER. Hello, this "meme" is not funny at all, and it is very annoying seeing it all over Reddit.  The original video it came from is inspirational, so it does not make any sense in the context of 99% of Reddit.  

This is a bot. Too far sir. Too far.. what does that mean? im sorry but it sounds so fascinating and i dont understand a thing.. where is the event horizon in the context of today’s pic? is it the entire black region?. and nougat. In Germany milky way is the bar with milk. Mars has caramel.. >Milky Way is obviously held together by ~~caramel~~ chocolate.

FTFY. Well it’s also kind of in an undetermined location.  The location keeps moving based on new observations.  It’s near the black hole, but we keep changing the definition of where it is.. Black holes at the center of galaxies are supermassive, but they're still a tiny fraction of the total mass in the galaxy.  

The sun is 99.86% of the total mass in the solar system; these supermassive black holes are less than .1% of the total mass of their galaxy.. Sagittarius A* has about as much effect on the earth as you do on the sun. But really, no. A star in its system is the vast majority of the mass of the system. A galaxy is composed mostly of things that are all relatively similar in size and decently spread apart. Some stars and black holes are bigger than others, but they're nowhere near the same proportion of the system as a star is to its planets.. I assume it's from our frame of reference, as observed.. I don't think he was talking about time in a relativistic sense.  Nine Earth masses per day means stuff equivalent to 9 times the mass of the Earth every day.. It absolutely causes motion in the direction of the force, or it wouldn’t be a force, that’s how force is defined.

You get orbits because the direction of the force is a function of the relative positions of the objects, which is not fixed.. I'm curious about your "stable circular orbit" description.  A force in either direction of the circle will cause the orbit to become more elliptical.

But outside of interactions with other matter (including collisions and gravitational interactions of planets or other orbiting objects), the elliptical orbit wouldn't necessarily be unstable.  Right?

There's nothing special about a circular orbit when solving the 2-body problem (unless I'm mistaken, of course).. Thanks, that's what I said.. [deleted]. Is there any data/theory about how long accretion disks last?  I've read that Sag A* has been dormant for 40 years, so does that mean the last consumption phase didn't last very long?. Also, we might actually be looking through *more* dust between here and the center of our galaxy as opposed to here and the center of a galaxy that is neither in our own galactic plane nor edge-on from our perspective.  Our galactic center isn't more of a visual beacon because there is actually a lot of non-luminous matter obscuring our view.. So the resolution should be about 5x higher given that it’s much nearer but also more obscured by gas? 


Do we have an idea which way the disk is facing us? Is it likely to be a side-on view?


Since you seem to know this stuff, what is the innermost bright and very thin band we see on simulations, such as the simulation they showed yesterday, and the one from Interstellar?. They said it's rotating 1000x faster, so that will make it more difficult.  Apparently, the monster in M87 has the same angular size as our much smaller Sagittarius A*.. What about the prospects of imaging Andromeda’s black hole?. Does these being radio telescopes in anyway impact this? Or does the obscuration still happen with radio telescopes?. LOL indeed :). literally lol'd at this. nice one. Interesting, I can't wait to learn more - I cannot wait to see where this leads us.. I've also been there.

I'd be more than willing to share lessons learned if you want to hit me up.

Just shoot me a PM.. Hey, I think you made the right decision to keep the biggest thread. Suggestion, in your pinned comment add a link to the HQ version.. I mean, csgo subreddit is not afraid of this. If there is some significant event in the risk of massive reposts, they leave the more quality one even if it posted later.
You are moderators, a sort of a personification of a will of the subreddit. We want better quality content, not the first one or the one with highest karma.. >	I don´t think so GR predicts the existence of the singularity but fails to describe it.

That’s not really accurate to say. As Matt Strassler writes:

>	It drives me nuts when people say there’s a singularity inside a black hole; that’s just wrong. The correct statement is that in Einstein’s theory of gravity, singularities (i.e. unavoidable infinities) arise in the math — in the formulas for black holes (or more precisely, in the solutions to those formulas that describe black holes.) But a singularity in the math does not mean that there’s a singularity in nature!  It usually means that the math isn’t quite right. A singularity in a formula implies a mystery in nature — not a singularity in nature.

From: https://profmattstrassler.com/2019/04/09/a-non-experts-guide-to-a-black-holes-silhouette/. Hmm, I was not aware of that limitation. Is the limit due to some sort of space-time curve trap like stated here? https://qr.ae/TWTK3k 
If so how does that trap differ from the curvature of all gravity wells?. >"I'm about to end career"

FTFY. Yeah no one cares. bad bot. Nothing can be said observationally.. The dark region is about ~20x10^-6 arcseconds across. The event horizon itself is only ~8x10^-6 arcseconds or about 2.5 times smaller. This is because the "shadow" of a black hole is related to the photon sphere of a black hole where light can enter unstable orbits. It's bright because many different photon rays will scatter away nearly parallel to one another. The ring itself then is light emitted by in-falling matter near the event horizon which then scatters away. The accretion disk itself isn't what's pictured here, though is does supply the infalling matter.

When you're talking about "seeing" the accretion disk, you probably mean that you want to see a high temperature disk which emits light. The ring presented in this photo though is from a different process called synchrotron radiation which is the emission of light from relativistic charged particles in magnetic fields.

The angular diameter of the Sun in our sky is, for comparison, 1800 arcseconds. To put this into context, the width of the dark region is about 325 AU across. If we consider the diameter of Pluto's orbit to be approximately 80 AU, this means the central dark region is about 4 Solar systems across.. No, the accretion disk is observable three Schwartzchild radiuses away, so the event horizon is actually closer to the center of that black region.. That’s quite a difference. So do we know what does hold them together? And why black holes tend to be at the center of galaxies?. There’s not really any radial velocity.  So in the radial direction there is no radial motion.  Force is defined as acceleration, which does not always have to be motion along that direction.. I'm assuming he was simplifying and what he really meant to say was: any deviation from the geodesic path in spacetime would require acceleration and so the object doesn't feel any force from the black hole.. You’re correct, it’s not exactly a circle and would deviate as an ellipse.  However, that’s irrelevant to the 2-body problem as you’re saying.  In reality, the effective potential you get from the 2 body problem still give you a potential well that causes orbits.  That’s what I meant by stable, but it will certainly increase in eccentricity over time (partially due to the fact it’s not a true 2 body problem).. No, your comment was misleading.. That was actually an idea in the earlier days of our understanding of black holes. The problem is there aren't any forces that can overcome gravitational attraction in a black hole.

You and I are kept from falling through the earth by the electromagnetic forces of the atoms we're made of. We can't push atoms through each other because they repel each other, just like two magnets. This works pretty well at our gravitational field strength. Most things don't fall through other things on earth.

If you increase the pull of gravity further, you end up overcoming those EM forces. Electrons are squeezed closer together than normally possible, but you'll run into what's called electron degeneracy pressure. Degenerate just means "Multiple states at the same energy". Electrons refuse to be put into the same state another electron, so there's a limit to how many electrons you can pack into a given area. And this is a pretty hard and fast rule of the universe known as the [Pauli Exclusion Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pauli_exclusion_principle). Quantum mechanics prevents identical Fermions (electrons, quarks, and things made of quarks like protons and neutrons) from occupying identical states. This is what holds white dwarf stars up, and prevents further collapse. At this point, you still have protons and neutrons, and a sort of thick, metallic soup of degenerate electrons.

If you increase the pull of gravity further, eventually it doesn't matter that electrons won't occupy the same state. Electrons will instead overcome the forces around nuclei and fuse with protons to form denser, more compact neutrons. Neutrons, like electrons, refuse to be put into the same atomic state, but since they're so much smaller and denser, they can withstand even greater gravitational forces and be squished even closer together. We don't know exactly what this soup of neutrons looks like, but that's what holds up neutron stars.

If you increase the pull of gravity further, theoretically, the force of gravity would overcome the strong nuclear forces within neutrons, to form a sea of free quarks (the things inside neutrons and protons), in what we would call quark stars. Here, our understanding of quantum chromodynamics (the study of forces inside protons and neutrons) breaks down a little, and we don't have any (known) observations of quark stars to go off of.

Additionally, quarks have a very large range of energies for their states. In less dense forms of matter, the degeneracy pressure we talked about stops things from collapsing further. We don't know for sure, but if quark energy states are simply too large and too far apart, quark matter may not be stable and degeneracy pressure might not be enough to keep things from collapsing. Physicists further theorize this could be resolved by some portion of quark matter being made of strange quarks, heavier quarks with more conducive energy levels, which might provide the needed pressure to avoid collapse.

If you increase the pull of gravity further... well, you get a black hole. Gravity overcomes all known forces. There's nothing to prevent matter from collapsing, so it does so down to a point of infinite density, or in a rotating black hole's case, a ring of infinite density. We don't understand what exactly the matter looks like. In theory, the density would imply quantum effects, and we don't think that quantum mechanics would suddenly start allowing particles to enter the same state like we talked about above, but we don't have a theory of quantum gravity that can marry the gravitational effects (things like the event horizon and time dilation) with the actual matter making up the black hole. Such a theory would revolutionize Physics and better inform us as to what a singularity looks like.. Forgive what is probably a dumb question, but what does "dormant" mean WRT a gravity well?. Radio will be impacted less than visible light, but will still experience some degree of obstruction.. Would it make it funnier if I told you I actually thought this was what they meant at first? xD. Thanks. Appreciate it.. Good idea. This subreddit isn't for Image only posts in the first place if you read the rules. I guess they made an exception here, because it's a significant event.. Yeah I get what you mean maybe I wrote things quite inaccurately. What I think is that even though the center of the black hole propably isn't a "singularity" I still think there must be some interesting things going on and it is a special point.. As far as I know:

all possible paths for time to evolve forward (which it must) lead to spacetime coordinate that has its spacial component pointing inwards towards the center. It's all curved inward.

Since you can't reverse the arrow of time you're trapped.. Well, when it comes to a black hole, it's like it kind of warps into itself. Which isn't the best explanation, but it'll give you a decent idea. Once inside, all paths lead to the singularity, so speed becomes irrelevant. At that point, no matter how fast you go, you're just going faster and faster to that core. 

But yeah, that answer works. That's why you'd need a time machine to get out, space and time "swap" in a manner of speaking because of the inevitability of the singularity. So, going faster than light and being able to go backwards in time *would* work, maybe, in theory, unless you're not objectively rewinding when it happens.. End career 

FTFY. thanks!. Yes. All the matter and dark matter in the galaxy is holding it together. With the mass spread out over a large volume, the galaxy is orbiting itself basically, not one central object.. There's no radial velocity (in a perfectly circular orbit) because the direction of the force isn't fixed, not because the force is causing a motion in a different direction from the direction of the force.

Again, to say a force causes motion in a different direction than the direction of the force is tautologically wrong, the direction of the force *is* the direction in which it causes motion. The *F* and the *a* are both vectors necessarily in the same direction. If there's no motion in that direction it's because of other forces cancelling it out. 

I understand what you're trying to say, but I think your wording is likely to cause misconceptions of gravity pushing objects around in orbits, which is wrong, This might get especially confusing given that there is a force that *does* act in different directions than towards or away from the objects that gives rise to it - particular motion of electric particles and magnetism.. The Pauli Exclusion Principle works for particles governed by the Fermi Dirac statistics. Those governed by Bose statistics, the Bosons don't follow this principle.. If it's a single point or a subatomic ring, then I sort of think it's a bit of a moot point wondering what it "looks like". It wouldn't look like anything, really.. Dormant means that there really isn't anything currently falling into the black hole. As such, if there is an accretion disc, it is probably small. No it wouldn't. Don't tell me that.. For sure, although it’s likely to be a tiny volume somewhat bigger than a point. But we can’t really know.. I think I get it, thanks for explaining!. Woah did you find this thread in a museum?. Good point, edited for clairity. It wouldn't have a very interesting visual appearance (in as much as "visuals" exist in warped space-time), but in theory it would have an equation of state, something we could use to describe it's structure, energy, and matter. Information isn't created or destroyed, so all those particles the black hole ate are somewhere in there, encoded into the structure of the singularity.. What happens if the black hole does not get any more material?  Does it eventually break down or just stay as it is?. Oh yes! I am an ignoramous! A total NYOOB.. The pixels that replied have an imaginary mass. I’m actually commenting before the post was even made.. Yeah. Though many wouldn't care, yet, just to be pedantic.. Yeah but I mean it wouldn't even interact with light (other than just absorbing it), so it literally wouldn't look like anything. It's smaller than an atom.

Visually,  there isn't anything you could actually "see".

I hope that is clearer what I meant.. It stays as it is. Over very long time scales (trillions of trillions of years) it's theorised black holes will evaporate, but that will happen long after all other stars have died. From calculus to string theory and QCD - all my notes from a 4 year master's!. nan. I wish I was that organized. Are these for sale?. Let me just mind meld those stacks real quick…. i tried taking notes for my qft course, but ran out of steam because we already had SO MUCH homework.   
Now I do pure math, but am still amazed by younger me's capacity to do all those calculations.   
I never could do them now  


Edit: corrected typo(s). How much?. What's the most rad thing you learned?. What do your notes look like? I’m still trying to figure out how to take notes, and currently, while I’m reading a textbook on my own, all my notes consist of are working to problems in the book. 

Do you also use your notes to rewrite ideas or what the professor/boom says?. Wait so your master's took 4 years? :o. It must be awesome to be that organised. I think notes are among the best tools for learning but, and that’s an honest question, has anyone in times of google ever gone back to their notes to review a topic of a few semesters ago?. That’s awesome! I had a similar though smaller stack for Part III at Cambridge. It was a lot of fun to chuck out a binder after each exam (with the originals saved as LaTeX, of course).. I'm not a big note taker myself, I mostly sit and listen and note down briefly any stuff I don't understand so I can read or ask my lecturer about it later. Still, I reckon I must've written at least half that during my 4 year degree, as I'm sure most people in the same position have - although I'd never be organised enough to file it or type it up in LaTeX.... [deleted]. If someone asks you to pick two characteristics of QCD, what would you pick?. What is the number one thing you learned so far that makes you say to yourself "There's just no way that's possible".. But why? :D I think I only used about a third of all this during my 6 years of studies.. Even if I wrote that much, I'd never be able to tell since my "note taking" was a clipboard with printer paper on it and I'd put the page in a folder. I'd condense notes throughout the semester, taking things out as my understanding bootstrapped. Still end up with about 20 pages per class per semester. Condensing helps if the prof lets you use notes or a single sheet on exams.. Asking for a friend, where do you get you binders? Love how they look, and after spending my first year of undergrad using the Amazon binders, I’d love to make a swap. The sacred texts. You did this master after you graduated college? If so, why did it start from calculus?. Honestly I would expect more. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. And strings.". Hey cool! Does that mean you can explain my homework problem on capacitance and dielectrics to me?. Sell them to a student for 5 figures make bank. I literally just have a suitcase purely designated for old notes from my engineering classes. God I would love to be able to read all of your notes!! I will never be able to afford to go back to college. I wiped a tear from my eye. Good job!. You should scan them , compile them in one place and make them available :). Damn, we definitely have different approaches to learning. All the notes I have of my 3 year masters is a print-out of my masters thesis... although I don't know where it is. I wonder... do you actually use them for reference or is it more about learning by writing it down? And it does seem like really a lot, even for people that take notes; do you see that as an advantage or do you wish that you could condense it somehow?. I'm surprised you only get a Masters after 4 years?. 4 years for a master's?? And what master's teaches calculus?. Trash em. 

Go electronic.. That's like my 1 unit of physics.

And I still have 4 more subject

But I'm still in under graduation, thing are different in india. Four years to do a masters? That’s crazy, in the UK it usually takes just a year.. Gonna do that in undergrad. [removed]. I'm starting my undergraduate in a few months, any suggestions to keep this organized, Master u/arfamorish?. Crazy how this is just ONE thing in life that you can study, maybe devoted all your life to and not able to comprend it all. Yep. That looks about right. I save mine too. Gonna have a bonfire when i graduate.. Seeing this makes me laugh--not in a dismissive, diminuitive sort of way, but a sympathetic one. I finished my bachelors in physics this spring. Still don't have that expensive sheet of paper due to forgetting to file for graduation until a week after their spring deadline, but *shrug* It'll show up. I've got all my notebooks and folders I sorted handouts/materials into for all my classes I took there sitting upstairs in a pair of milk crates. Went to buy more but oddly enough WalMart didn't have any, otherwise I think they would've filled 2-3 more. If my university didn't have enforced book rental, It'd probably be closer to 8. :p. I’m willing to bet I couldn’t even begin to comprehend 99.9% of that shit. Lol. I’m extremely envious. Seeing how well organised and well filed they are, the Gods only know how beautifully well written they are. What a wealth of information we have there.. Nice! What area of Physics do you plan to work in for your PhD?. this is such a sexy sight to behold. Damn 4years for masters. Or is it Bachelors + Masters combined? I thought a masters lasts maximum 2 years. [deleted]. Alright now what do I have to do to get these notes. Good job. If I had to learn that much physics and stuff I'd probably just off myself instead, because I already struggled at things like friction. But it's nice to see that other people have fun doing that.. Beautiful organization, very jealous, props to you OP. Some of the printers allow auto scanning of documents and turn them into a pdf 📚📝 

Please let us know if you scan them and are willing to share these notes 😁. Can you give me some advice! I’m starting calculus 3 and calculus based physics this august. I’m keeping my options open so I want to double major in math and physics but I’m not sure of the career opportunities for each?. So satisfying. As someone with severe ADHD, I never picked up note taking because it took away concentration from the lecture and I never referenced any of it.

I'm curious, how often have you read what you've written?. It's so weird to think that I have that amount of notes for 5 subjects for A levels but your stack is all on physics. Cool stuff. Why is the Masters programme 4 years, if I may ask.. Omg. I thirst for those binders. Lol. Sweet! What is your next step? I am starting Quantum Physics this fall, shooting for String Theory in the distant future.. 4 years master…. CLASS. So what did you do with the degree? just asking. I like to burn most of college notes to declutter, except the important stuff…So pretty much everything is burned. Probably about 1Mb of information. Still very impressive :p. Bro shouldn’t you digitalize them otherwise there is a risk of getting them lost. 🙌🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻. That’s pretty awesome. Hard work!. Have my notes from physics undergraduate and geophysics masters and probably have half that with both. I'm not a good note taker but that seems a lot. Who are you gonna have digitize that so you can reference?. I wish my teachers had actually taught that much material. Education in some areas is amazing but some individuals are just sorry. What a hardworker 💪🧠. You learned calculus at your master's? Where did you study?. Damn, the paper alone must've run up your student loan eh. Digitize them, upload them. you must have master like hand writing now to. How do you keep your notes organised?. 4 years masters? 
Interesting!. For the PhD the paper must be infinite.. How much of that can be found on the internet?. In order to fully understand a class, having best grades, you should be able to impart the content yourself before even the class is going to take place. I did the same thing with my ba & ma. 😄 for my phd there's more digital books etc. Love that someone who is interested in philosophy can come and read everything because it's sorted kind of well. But noone did it yet lol 
Great job 👏. Can you share the pdfs plz. Can I send you my address?. Can you share this with us ??. And this is how new books in these fields are made. This.is.beautimus!. Now scan and upload them as pdf ha ha :p. I had stacks like that. After a couple years I realized I wasn't referring to them at all, but still couldn't bear to just recycle it, so I compromised and ran it all through a scanner and then recycled the lot. Still haven't ever referred to those PDFs now some 14 years on from my degrees, but they're there in my backups.

I've been slowly paring my textbook collection. Now it's only reference material for active subject areas that I know I need backup on.. This is why I write my notes in pdfs. And I thought I liked taking notes. I finished my Masters just over 6 years ago and my undergrad around 8 years ago. I still have notes from every single class I took for both. I go back and read through them sometimes. I hope to pass them down to my child once they start learning physics.. First year of mine done and I have a grand total of abt 6 pages of notes 🤣. Pretty damn cool!!!. F’n four years? For just a masters?. How much of that actually stayed in your memory though?. Quantum Chromodynamics?. Meanwhile I am finding that one notebook I made last year.. Working hard is an addiction 👍🏻. How much?. I find it wild that this is in physical form.. I'm jealous.. Omg I thought you were giving us all the notes waaaaaaaah. Thats so clean, my masters notes are in a bunch of papers not even indexed. wish i could do it like you lol. This is what 100k of debt look like. Congrats tho!. Cool. Please digitize those precious notes and share them with the world. If you feel like it, of course.. Don't throw it out, you'll forget half of it in a few years.. Goddam ! I love physics but i suck at it . I have joined this subreddit because I really like physics but I need someone to explain me every theory lol .. wow. That's an expensive pile of paper. Meanwhile, Med Students only use Anki…! 😂👌. Can you please share 2 pages (or more, if you want) of all that? I’d be really interested in seeing your “type” and how you were taking notes. 


Please and thank you.. Too bad I use different notebooks, so I cannot show them like that. But the volume seems very true.. Please give me tips. I'm starting uni in a month and I want to do well.. How do you start learning calculus to doing string theory in only four years? At my undergrad ( which had no grad classes) you'd start calc as a freshman/sophomore. Then, upon graduating after four years, you'd go to grad school where you probably couldn't take string theory until your second or third year (given that you wouldn't have any grad classes going in).. Please post as pdf.. Next up. Time crystals.. Wow! That was hard work. Good for you and I wish you well.. Wow! That was hard work. Good for you and I wish you well.. Wow! That was hard work. Good for you and I wish you well.. Ok. I need them notes.. I know the burden it may cause you, but is it possible for you to scan all of your notes and upload them to a drive or a place where the general public can view them?. Notes 🥰🥰.   
Looks like great fuel for your oven! \^\^  
seriously tho, this will help you nothing advancing forward, the only thing that will really help you is what stays in your head.. I make tons of notes but I never look at them again. You might be better off paying attention to the lecture directly.. [deleted]. I wish they would publish this. Have a 1/3 to maybe a bit under half for my 3 years in Math. Really wish I was that organized. Einstein had 5 identical suits in his closet, so he did not have to waste brain power on deciding what to wear.

He was big on references, once you understand the premise, their are plenty of references available. Notes have value when expanding knowledge, beyond what has been previously explored. Your notes then are the only reference available.. You would if you used a note taking app. Your notes would be easily searchable and accessible anywhere.. Seriously. Came here to place a bid.. I'm not willing to sell the physical notes as I would still like them for myself, but I could certainly scan them in and sell the pdfs! There are obviously a lot of pages though so I would need to be sure that lots of people would use them first. I have to say though, I wrote these notes for myself so it's difficult to tell how useful they would be to other people. 
I think £2-8 per subject would be a reasonable price, depending on the length and quality of the notes (there is quite a variation!). 
Reply to this comment (maybe with particular subjects?) if you are still interested!. They’re just drawings of
Scooby doo. [removed]. Very nice! How much?. See my comment here :) https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/okyoig/from_calculus_to_string_theory_and_qcd_all_my/h5c1v6s?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share&context=3. I think one of the most fascinating things was seeing how our understanding of electricity and magnetism has changed over time. From noticing that rubbing things together can cause charges to move, we have eventually ended up with the standard model, which is in a sense a direct generalisation of Maxwell's theory.. I guess it's somewhere in the field of nuclear physics 

B'Dum Tsss. Set aside a portion of your pages, maybe a column somewhere between a fifth and a third of the page width. In the large section, make notes as the lecturer is talking - handwritten if you are able to. Get as much down as possible while maintaining focus on the lecturer. Later in the day, preferably after having a break if some description like a lecture on a different subject or later in the evening, return to those notes and write a condensed summary in the smaller section based on the larger section. If anything continues to not make sense or you can't follow something, make a note of it and look it up in a textbook, ask a friend who is also taking the course or has already taken it, or ask the lecturer directly (I appreciate they probably aren't responsive at the moment, not that they were much better in The Before Times). This method gives you completeness, direct engagement and highlights areas for further work, at the "cost" of starting a habit of daily revision and content review.. Depends very much on the subject and how well I understand it. Generally I take quite rough notes from lectures that I basically never look at again, and then will go through a book (or a few books if I can't find one that j like) in detail and rewrite everything in my own words, do all the calculations that are left out etc.. 3 of those years are basically the Bachelor's. I was also wondering in which country that is!. I don't have an example about my Master's notes per se, but it often happens during my PhD that I need some specific calculation or technique that I know is done in details in this or that textbook and so I go check it out. However, I would be hard pressed to find the correct formulation of a google query leading to it.. I’ve looked back at high school notes personally for questions I had on anatomy and economics, still haven’t enrolled in any colleges as of yet though.. I generally go back to them when there's a particular part of a subject that I've previously struggled with. I write notes to explain the subject matter to my future self basically!. Absolutely. Google sucks and no one on the internet can tell you anything about anything. These days you can trust no one but yourself. I did, but only because we have a “general paper” in the second and third year of my degree which examines you on all core content studied so far. I honestly wouldn’t have remembered much first year astrophysics without a quick flick through those notes! It didn’t help that that course was a quite eclectic mix of astro/ cosmology topics, so didn’t really follow any one textbook. Also useful because there weren’t any pdf notes for some of my courses, and there can be course-specific things I need to refer back to. 


Caveat to all of that is that I still haven’t used previous years’ notes much really! I definitely chucked some optional module notes that I knew I’d never use again.. Part III, that's a fucking flex right there! Congrats on completing the worlds hardest mathematics course.. Nah, you only need to take as many notes as are useful to you, not the maximal amount you can possibly write. Students very often take far too many notes, giving themselves unproductive busywork and fussing over details rather than focusing on the broader concept. And since the OP has mentioned they didn't even give much of these notes a second glance, it sounds like there wasn't much use to them.

I recently read an interview of a professor who'd once invited a young Peter Scholze, now a mathematician widely regarded as a genius, to sit in on their series of research seminars. The professor said Scholze had taken remarkably *few* notes but that after almost two hours on a topic in the first such seminar, Scholze had been asked how much he understood. He replied asking only for clarification of the terminology. When he was given the meanings of the terms, Scholze expressed that everything was now clear.

It turned out that he had been saving all of the relevant, functional information in his head from the lecture without having knowledge of some details and terminology, which he was able to fill in afterwards. 

Now, it would be facetious of me to suggest that most people can photographically recall two hours of lectures at will -- most of us are not Peter Scholze -- or that learning a topic before learning its terminology is at all sensible.

But in any case, we can appreciate that the effectiveness of Scholze's learning was *not* a result of obsessively writing things down or focusing on details. It was in broadly understanding the concepts at hand and actively engaging with it in a way that stuck in his mind.. No. Usually people who have mountains and mountains of high quality notes spent a lot more time making those notes than actually learning. People who do latex in real time being the worst about this (seriously, don't do it).. What is QCD?. Asymptotic freedom is very weird and very cool and, at the other end of the spectrum, confinement is very interesting (and something that I would like to know more about!). The idea of a probability amplitude is still completely mind-boggling to me. Why is that the way that nature works?! Bizarre.. A 4-year Master's is sometimes an accelerated Bachelor's + Master's program, though typically I feel like those last something like 5 years.. Some people just like calculus. In theory yes, but I don't know how well the experiment would agree with that prediction 😛 it's been a long time and I'd definitely have to recap it all first!. [removed]. I'm an incredibly unorganized person (never studied in high school, papers in backpack without folder, etc.) but at a certain point it just kinda happens because there is no alternative. By the time you get into upper division courses, you have notebook for your class because if you don't write down and annotate the derivations, you won't be able to do the homework. You might have multiple subjects in one notebook if you're really unorganized (cough) but come review time, again, it gets sorted out because there is no alternative.. I only got organised enough to sort out my first and second year notes into folders when I got into my third year, before that they were just stapled together in rough groups. I regret not sorting them as I went from the beginning, I definitely think that would help.. I had the same feeling taking to people who finished the same course 4 years ago. Have faith in yourself! :). See my comment here :) https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/okyoig/from_calculus_to_string_theory_and_qcd_all_my/h5c1v6s?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share&context=3. See my comment here :) https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/okyoig/from_calculus_to_string_theory_and_qcd_all_my/h5c1v6s?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share&context=3. no idea where OP is from but 4 years is normal length for a masters where I'm from (UK).

Bachelors degree is 3 years, masters 4.. Honestly you’d have to really dig and most of it likely wouldn’t be there. If not in school, the best bet is to read and understand the texts from a given curriculum and read published papers. I’m on an Astrophysics track fyi.. The act of taking notes (especially handwritten notes) can help with retention.. This is why I live using an iPad to take notes. I'm much more likely to look back at them. Also lighter. Yeah I went from a 65 to an 85 between first and second year physics. Only thing I changed was that I stopped taking notes entirely. Lecture slides were uploaded online, and lecture recordings if I really needed to re-hear something but that wasn’t often the case. Actually listening intently and following the lesson plus asking questions at the end was night and day better for me than spending my time transcribing the noises coming out of the lecturers mouth into words on paper.. Taking notes of key points make you remember them even if you never look at the notes again. Idk about OP but for my physics degree you do a general paper (an exam covering all core content you’ve studied so far) in your second and third year. I found it quite useful keeping my notes to go through for revision, or to refer to when faced with a tricky practice question. 


Other than that yeah nostalgia, or just liking to see them as a physical sign of your accomplishment. I personally would probably get rid of some stuff after the masters but it’s unlikely I’d get rid of much before finishing it.. if they are good you could give them to someone. >It might look nice but what's the point in keeping it all?


Personally for me it was having the Professor's input on the subject.  It could be an elaboration or just a cool footnote.


>I had all of my college notes and at some point I realized I should just throw them all away.


I need to digitize all of mine then I can toss them out.  It's a bit of a project though.. To be honest, I doubt there's that much demand for notes of relatively common subjects which you can easily find online for free. Plenty of professors make typed notes of their classes available on their websites for free. 

That said, I still think you should scan and/or digitize them so you can more easily access them in the future. And if someone wants to buy a copy, then even better!. I don't know about the value of buying someone's personal notes unless you were ramanujan or something. You'd gain a lot more from taking your own notes. Interested. You can pay a copy shop to do HQ scans. Man, I'd love to grab the complete set. Scanned all mine when I finished a few years ago only for my laptop to have a catastrophic failure and lose everything the day I tried plugging in a hard drive to copy things over  🙃. I'd buy a PDF copy of each!. Those calculus notes would be amazing to have a scan of!. I would totally be interested!. Hey man, I'm really interested. Please notify whenever you have the notes up on sale!!!!. I would be interested in said scans. I'd be interested but first I'd like to know exactly what you studied in each subject. I too am interested! The more knowledge the better. I bookmarked this post. Let us know when you scan it.. I would be very interested in anything even remotely related to string theory. I am less big on numbers and equations, more concept/theory type stuff.. haha, who's gonna pay that money for some notes when libgen exists. I'm interested in the whole set, even digitized, as an artifact. Is the offer still open?. [removed]. The thing that got me, once I'd done my "oh....", was how much simpler relativistic electromagnetism, with an electromagnetic four-potential and four-current, was when compared to Maxwell's equations.

Simples. But it does make magnetic monopoles look completely fugly.. By ‘direct’ do you mean ‘deeply problematic, mathematically ill-posed and frustratingly accurate’? 

This meme was brought to you by the Mathematical physicist gang. I like that a lot - the value of the historical perspective and how it enriches that value of present understanding. Thanks for your response :). I believe that this is maybe the most effective way to learn from a lecture discovered yet. However, at the same time, between lectures, homework and other responsibilities besides university, I never find the time for it. The day only has 24 hours for me, is anyone actually pulling this technique of consistently across all their lectures?. Oh so like in integrated masters in the UK where you take four years and graduate with a BSc and an MSci.

I’d still say it took me 3 to get the bachelors and one to get the masters, though.. I am very proud of you! Congratulations on your journey :). UK or some with similar system, i as a swede have a 5 yeat ”masters” which basically is 3 year bsc and 2 year msc. Yes sure that’s what I experience as well. Even in my undergrad studies. We had a really in-depth lecture on Atomic and Molecular Physics (best lecture ever like really) which followed, except for the light matter part, the bransden and joachain and I come back to that book constantly! But as far as my notes go I’d say that they are a help for memorisation and learning for exams. Maybe that will change for me!. High school notes are a joke. I assume they did Part III in Physics, not Mathematics. [deleted]. Quantum Chromodynamics, the study of strong interaction. Quantum Chromodynamics. It's the study of quarks if I'm not entirely mistaken.. Theory of the force that keeps the nucleus of an atom together.
Just as photons carry the electromagnetic force between charged particles such as electrons,
the 8 gluons carry the strong force between color charged particles such as quarks.
However, in a more complex manner, such as there being three types of charges or "color" (red green blue).. They call them integrated master’s in the UK and they last for 4 years. You only get the masters out of it though, not the bachelors.. He used pounds (£) in another comment so I'll assume he's British.  Here it's common to study an "integrated masters" (more than half my class did) where you do a bachelors + masters.  In England that will be 3+1 years while in Scotland it's 4+1 with an option for some good students to skip the first year.. I’m already hopelessly confused 🤦‍♀️. I see. For some reason I had this idea that the terms for bachelor and master are universal. Silly me. Over In Hong Kong bachelor is 4 years and master is 2,  generally.. For some people, it's the opposite. I've transposed entire chapters of books without having a clue what I've transposed. This also applies to learning alphabets from other languages. My brain just abstracts the information into a bunch of meaningless symbols and loses the entire conceptual framework in the process.

The fix to this is to explain the information to someone/something.. It can also help with distraction.. Sometimes yes, but I used to have a teacher that would always share the notes with us, so if you wanted you could have just listened. And then at the end she would give us practice problems. And I found that very efficient for my learning style. Honestly that saying sounds like it stemmed from a lazy teacher who just wanted the students to stop messing around, so he told them to take notes. It’s like something that sounds true, so you believe it. I have never heard any evidence or proof of it.

Then again, I still think it’s true….. I actively listen to the teacher lecturing and ask questions accordingly only casually jotting down what I find most important. After class I use the posted powerpoint/textbook/online resources to take more in depth notes.  Most of the time now teachers are simply regurgitating what they show on their PowerPoint.. It depends on how they take notes.. i do this not to use so much paper. Yeah, the standard for notes is to make them freely available. For instance, see [here](https://academia.stackexchange.com/questions/148261/do-you-keep-your-study-notes-publicly-available/148275#148275) for a list of eight students' websites, each of which have thousands of pages of notes available for free.. Depending on the note-taking style, just seeing another interpretation of the professors words could be useful. Not sure I would pay for it though, since so many people provide them for free.. How many Histories are written from personal letters?

Youd be surprised how interesting something like this could be. Few students both keep such comprehensive notes and also make them available. There are ways in which they are *more* interesting than those of a professor or a genius.. [removed]. That's only a problem if they exist.... I sympathise. Because whoever the person is that can do that consistently, they certainly aren't me!. I'm assuming the OP is talking about the UK integrated masters or at least a functional equivalent, any of the ones where you sign up for the 4 years knowing the end result is a masters. 

I wouldn't necessarily describe it like that - I have the same qualification, but didn't feel like I submitted the requirements for the BSc and then also submitted the requirements for the MPhys, but maybe I'm getting too hung up on the lack of dissertation in 3rd year. Good thing I have a decent sense of humor then lol. It's usually best to strike a balance. how did you turn your snoo into Cosby?. The further away I am from these notes, the more I’m attracted to it.. To expand, gluons have a three dimensional charge. Where 1 dimensional charge of electromagnetism can be represented by + and -, color theory was coopted to represent gluon phenomena, with additive/subtractive color working pretty well as a model.. 5 in Scotland, and I got both.. Yep, exactly this.. That’s…not true.

Source: I took an integrated masters program and I got both a BA and an MSci out of it.. I didn't catch that the other poster was likely British. My response was from the POV of my American experience.. >  I've transposed entire chapters of books without having a clue what I've transposed.

I'm sure intent has a lot to do with it (also, do you mean transcribed? or translated? Not sure what you mean by "transposed" in this context).

If you are transcribing with the intent of retaining it, your brain is going to be in a different 'mode' than if you're transcribing it just to have a copy of it.. Nobody's sure if that is true. Better start taking notes...or not.... Listening to a lecture as I'm reading this right now, you might be onto something.. As in provide?. I had uni courses where the entire class, we would hand write exactly what the professor hand wrote on the white board, for the entire duration of the class. If the prof erased something before you wrote it down, you zoned out for a minute, or you missed lecture, you were screwed.

After switching majors, my next professor showed up to class on the first day with the lesson’s lecture slides printed out in stapled packets, and passed them out to all of us. We spent the duration of the class listening to the lecture, reading the PowerPoint, and annotating the packet. 

I went from getting C’s to getting A’s ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯ .

Edit: my first major was even worse, because all the classes were in the same lecture hall, where the white boards were super far from the seats, the lighting was *ATROCIOUS*, and the seats weren’t all angled around the boards. So if you weren’t located in the middle of the lecture hall in either the first or second rows, you were gonna spend a lot of the time being unable to read what was even on the board.

Top 5 uni for that major in the US (world, too?). Coulda fooled me smh.. [deleted]. [deleted]. It works for me. It certainly doesn't work for everyone.. The Cornell note system has decent backing to it if I recall correctly.. >Honestly that saying sounds like it stemmed from a lazy teacher who just wanted the students to stop messing around, so he told them to take notes. It’s like something that sounds true, so you believe it. I have never heard any evidence or proof of it.

There have been some studies that are suggestive, though I'm sure it varies between individuals.. https://www.cultofpedagogy.com/note-taking/. "can help", not "will help". Oh my god. Not a Rick roll.... Is there another site like that for social work?. From OPs perspective though it’s not really worth all of the effort in scanning all of that stuff for free. If they were planning to do it anyway then sure, but just to freely distribute them? Maybe I’m selfish but I wouldn’t take the time to do all of that. I did make my notes I took on notability freely available but I was already doing it anyway for myself, so it wasn’t any extra effort.. [removed]. And by aesthetics alone, I banish them to the outer darkness of green ink and no margins.

There does seem to be no place for them in *magnetism = electricity + Lorentz transformation*. But cleverer minds than me appear to think otherwise.. For my course it was quite cleanly separated, you had the choice of graduating after 3 years with just a bachelors (which people who weren't interested in a directly physics-related career took), or staying on another year to get a masters as well, while some extra people joined us just for the fourth year. That was at Cambridge though, I get the impression they do a lot of things differently so perhaps that's unusual. 

There was no 3rd year dissertation but you did have to do some form of project work (I did a research review and a computing project, for example).. Yes thanks. It's funny because quarks are color confined.. Five years and receive both in Ireland, but can leave with the bachelors after four if you wish.. [I got 5 on it.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HSC9cgvtkRs). It definitely helps writing things in your own words, or maybe rephrasing stuff as if you were going to explain/present this to someone. It takes a long time but it’s time well spent.. You're right. I thought about it but didn't verify if I had the right term. It's definitely transcription. I think I was trying to avoid the term "transliteration" and just avoided it too hard.

But that does make sense. I'm definitely not processing the information in any meaningful way when it's happening.. Everyone’s mind works differently. People told me those things when I was growing up and it never helped. In college I did better when I didn’t take notes. There is no one size fits all for learning.. I'm sure you retained everything while you were ignoring the professor.. [deleted]. learning styles are a myth fyi, theres no evidence of them. [removed]. I had final exams in an entirely separate building I'd never been in, much less a different room in the same building. It was awful. Failed the shit out of that final.. In school, I often would recall answers based on the way I wrote my notes. I could feel the motions my hands made and it would pull the lecture into consciousness. It was almost like my fingers had encoded the information for me. I didn't get the same effect from typing my notes and it felt like I lost a degree of efficacy.. I know notetaking helps me with retention. I remember a few times there was a question on the exam taken straight from the notes and I was a few steps into the answer before I remembered where I was getting the info from. :p. My dude. Ah, for us in Manchester you joined the course on the 4-year or 3-year track from the get go, with limited chances to switch between. I spent my third year at Berkeley so there may well have been some project stuff I missed, but from the sound of it it there didn't appear to be for my fellows on the integrated course. Certainly not of sufficient scope to be considered a capstone of a bachelor's, as best I can tell at least. You're not supposed to transcribe directly to retain whole chapters. You're supposed to take notes on key points, points of interest, a chapter summary, etc. in your own words.. >  There is no one size fits all for learning.

That's why I said "can help" and not "will help". I've had it do both. Realized a couple of years into my undergrad studies that scribbling *anything* kept me awake, but trying to take actual notes got in the way of listening to the lectures.

If you're like me and you're better at taking in oral information than you are writing, give lecture doodling a try.. [removed]. [removed]. I always found that a bullet point outline of chunks of information is my best way to retain the info. It keeps it organized in my head.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed] Geomorphology of a river: what happens when you install a dam or a weir and how the sediment transport changes. nan. I'd be very curious to see how this looks with something more like a true dam, with limited release paths at the bottom.. Interesting principle of water flow although this seems like more of a weir than a dam. I'm going to school for this. It's so fascinating.. The time it takes for the sediment to build up as much as the part near the end in an actual river must take thousands of years, right?. Now if you replace those with 'gabions' (similar, but with holes in it, imagine a wire cage with rocks) and put them in series (any size, but a meter or so allows salmon to climb them) then you turn the river into a filter system and water storage mechanism. So it may rain for one day, but the sediment will store water and slowly release it, filtered and clean for months, or all year round. Turning a dry riverbed into a water source for people, wildlife, and irrigation.   


You can supplement the system by implementing trench-and-berms on contour in the watershed above the river to dramatically improve results. I am working on a paper that explains the cause and effects [\>here<](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QFRCaNya-6SBTBGAMG8fAqXRGktS_E9LjsRshAC-Fos/edit?usp=sharing). [deleted]. Watching that hydraulic jump develop is very satifying.. This explains the times I've found small abandoned dams and the bottom behind the dam was all the way up at the level of the top of the dam.. The down river side is deadly. It will take rescue rafts down and hold them there, killing everyone. Because there's no buoyancy  (white water is mostly air) and the perfectly smooth hydraulics prevent you from floating out, even when wearing a rescue class life preserver. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKMkXLLBnAQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BKMkXLLBnAQ). So it oscilates forever?. This *whole thread*, has been an education. . Damn. That’s weird . Mirror?. This is why you want a system to pump your flup to the edge of your rimwall.. watch the movie sandbars its insane. Its about how sandmining is affecting our oceans. Knarly. This is one of the most interesting videos I ever watched. A great book, Cadillac Desert, I read a long time ago, talked about the problems of dams silting up.. What happens with out gravity?. Very interesting, but is this factoring for the correct similitude? . Can we see the whole picture? It's kind of hard to get a grasp of things when there's lots of changes happening outside of the screen.. Before i saw this was on this subreddit I literally thought of sending this to my friends with my comment being “damn that’s interesting” . When i found out it was the subreddit’s name I immediately subscribed. I don’t have anything sciency to contribute to this convo, but this is super cool wow. Infinite loop. r/oddlysatisfying. Good Lorde. It’s so interesting seeing videos of things like this or lab experiments showing how rivers meander. What are these apparatus called? Also, does anybody know if there’s a good simulator/game that lets you do similar things? It would be really fun to play around with it. . I also have a hard time telling the difference between weirs and principles.. Yeah, that would be quite an inefficient dam indeed.. Cool man have fun . Are you going to get “Sedimentory lessons”.. Not really. A dam near me was removed on a very small river and there was tons of sediment built up behind it. The dam was only in place a little over 90 years. I was part of a similar removal project for a larger, ~100 year old dam and there was absolutely no sediment build up. The sediment seemed to build up at the first bend below the dam.. Couple of good examples near me (Southern California) of dams that became useless fairly quickly.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rindge\_Dam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rindge_Dam)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matilija\_Dam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matilija_Dam)

&#x200B;

The second one features briefly in the documentary 'Damnation'.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;. Interesting. What do you mean by the size of the series you could put them in?. My guess is that it stays flowing in the way it ended but I’m unclear too. You can take you dam pictures all you want. I would call them "Hydraulic models".

I don't know of any good simulators for things like this, even professionally -- there's a reason that there are physical labs that will bill scale models of rivers and such to study them.

[Example of such a model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tH15a_r2in4).. Hydrologists hate this one weir principle! . Pretty sure you’re trolling.. Huh, okay. I was thinking a magnitude too high then. And yeah, I guess some dams would be better at filtering the sediment than others based on how they’re built. Thanks for the insight!. [deleted]. If the damn filled up with sediment, it then it wouldn't hold much water and it wouldn't really be a dam right? just a waterfall.. 
Although the gabions will work in, and are beneficial to every water artery, no matter how big or small, let us take a salmon watershed for example. The salmon will climb back up the river in some cases 1,500 meter in elevation. Salmon can jump over 3 meters in height if they have enough water to push through. in thoery you would use one meter high gabions, set at a distance apart so their is one at every one meter in elevation. Therefore a 1,500 meter blimb may spread down a 10,000 Kilometer river you would still only have 1,500 one meter tall gabions regardless of distance.
 On page 69 of this unfinished [>document<](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uDfu9HVeD0HLTxrkbLWt0BT_1Z8q8KQfU-Th9ERQgt0/edit?usp=sharing) I have a few drawings where I did my best to articulate the 'spread' of gabions. 

You could also build five times fewer gabions if they are five meters tall, but then I would no longer call that specific installation 'salmon' friendly. Which in some cases, it is not a problem. 

To reiterate a key point, installing gabions is a fix to a symptom of the root problem, whereas, the trench-berms are the solution to the root problem, together they compliment each other.. I think the size is in reference to the gabions.. But that state was reached before, then it seemed to stabilize in the state where the level of sediments was the same as the dam's high and at the end it reached the first state again.. I too have difficulty understanding the difference. 

Does it help if I state I’m serious?. It also depends heavily on the natural sediment load of the river.  Some rivers carry a lot more sediment than others (based on their discharge, shape/size/slope, and velocity (a function of those other factors), as well as the material that's available to be transported, ranging from silts and clays to pebbles to boulders), and those rivers that do will fill in their reservoirs fastest.  The sediment buildup behind large dams will occasionally get dredged out if it starts causing issues.. Near the Canadian border in NY.. Hence why they remove them. . I believe they put a second weir downstream (and off-screen) of the weir we could see, which is what resulted in the downstream collection of sediment. Yeah I hear ya, idk. That makes more sense but I’m sticking to my guns. Where’s a reddit scientist when ya need one . Well yea, we are not the internet. It is difficult to discern the two. Growing a Crystal One Atomic Layer at a Time. nan. Quick explanation:

The big ball at the top is a droplet of gold that is supersaturated with gallium and arsenic. The lattice at the bottom is a single crystal of gallium arsenide (GaAs).

This method of crystal growth, known as [vapor-liquid-solid \(VLS\) growth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vapor%E2%80%93liquid%E2%80%93solid_method), is used to produce nanowires.

This particular [paper](https://journals.aps.org/prl/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevLett.121.166101) showed how the GaAs steps formed at the interface between the gold and the crystal.. How fucking cool is this?!. So....how long before crystal growing sets of old are reincarnated as crystal 3D printers?. Source: [https://physics.aps.org/articles/v11/106](https://physics.aps.org/articles/v11/106). That's a lot bigger than I thought. . Could someone explain what's going on here please? What's the big black ball? An atom? And what is the lattice forming around it made up of?. Physics never ceases to amaze me. That is some great TEM work! No wobble, in focus, not even thermal fluctuations.

&#x200B;. How is this imaged? I know the article says electron microscope, but since when have they been able to image individual atoms like this? Wasn't the first image of an individual atom a big thing relatively recently?. When I was an undergrad at MTU I worked in a lab that was focused on finding different ways of growing carbon nanotubes.  I was responsible for running some experiments using plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition.  The prof used to draw these diagrams of the mechanism (liquid catalyst becomes saturated with carbon and deposits a ring, repeate) and explain it to me, but always followed it with "this is just a hypothesis though, he don't have evidence that this is what's actually going on".


I'm SUPER happy to see this gif. It’s like downloading a picture in the 90’s via telephone modem . Why doesit seem like i can only see the atoms once they get organized versus seeing them floating around.. Holy shit, Magic School Bus was kind of [accurate](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-81b1de88d5a985bee172c97fd35f7199-c) . This is some phenomenal microscopy. Awesome!. As a nanoscience student, watching this feels like being on LSD. This brings me back to watching the magic school bus kids make a sugar crystal hood ornament. Good stuff.. This is rad.. Are those really atoms?. r/oddlysatisfying . So is this how doped semiconductors are made?. now THATS what I call a precise 3D printer!. I love this so much! . Damn science is the shit. . So, what would happen if you do this in micro gravity? . Hey! Where you at nanowire week in Hamilton this past summer? I definitely saw this video at a talk there. That's really freaking neat. I learned about this in school, but we didn't have a video to go with it.. this is the coolest fucking thing I have ever seen!. How do cameras get this tiny. Why does it always start from the same side? I would have thought it would be more random than this. . TEM?. Why second layer only starts building when the first is finished? How is that possible?. It's crazy that we can even watch that. Technology ftw!. It's cool but not particularly useful - way too slow.. Immediately haunted by scenes from Andromeda Strain. So, Crystal Sword next?? . Why can't we see the anything in the droplet, or any kind of gradient?

Just based off how this looks visually it seems to go against all the assumptions of modern phase field modelling that solidification happens across an extended region due to packing effects near the surface.

Here we see the old view of what solidification looked like, one layer being deposited at a time.. Why is the atomic layer resolved (I assume those are individual atoms?) but the gold atoms in the droplet are not?. I wasn't even able to finish saying I don't know what I'm looking at before I saw your post. Impressive. Was that some kind of SPM or Electronic microscope? I'M DYING TO KNOW. That's not the only thing that grows one atomic layer at a time . According to the paper 400°C.. I have no idea. I'm ready to spend way too much money for a home crystal printer. . [deleted]. As a dude with 15+years of TEM operation experience, I can say the size is normal.. Oh Oh Oh!!! 

THAT'S WHAT SHE SAID!!!. [deleted]. The article says that it’s a drop of liquid gold saturated with other elements which fall out of solution and form crystals beneath it. Science, bitch!. For Transmission Electron Microscopy, taking images of atomic lattices has been a regular occurrence for a few decades.  It was only ~10 years ago that electron probes approached and broke 1 angstrom but we've been able to capture images like this video for quite a while.  The smallest probes are on the order of 0.5A and below these days.. Of an individual atom in isolation, that is indeed quite recent, but a change of an atom over a large area, say adding a layer to a crystal, is older (and easier). This looks like regular high resolution TEM. Google HAADF STEM for a real trip :). [deleted]. they form similar, repeated units in the crystal, while they are disorganized in the liquid droplet. Imagine two people walking separately in parallel through a dense forest at night. One person has a flashlight.  If the forest is random, then the other person wont be able to make out the flash light, as it will run into the trees between the two people. If it's a pruned garden however, where the trees have been planted in rows, then as the two people walk, they will be able to see the flashlight each time they pass through a gap in the rows.  


The electrons are doing a similar thing in this picture, but with the gaps in the crystal lattice. We can see them when the atoms are well organized, but while they are random, we don't get any electrons coming through. . Magic School Bus was generally pretty good at what they did; any inaccuracies were usually pointed out and explained in the "ask the producer" segment at the end. Wouldn't be much point in making a science show for kids if they got the science blatantly wrong.. Most commercial single-crystal semiconductors are grown via the [Czochralski process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Czochralski_process), whereby a small "seed crystal" is dipped into a pool of molten material (e.g. silicon) and then slowly pulled out and cooled. The molten material condenses on the seed and conforms to it's lattice, forming a nearly perfect single crystal. The cylindrical crystal is then carefully cut into wafers.

Impurities can be added to the molten material to dope the semiconductor, or the wafers can be heated in the presence of a gas containing the desired dopants (e.g. heating GaAs in hydrogen sulfide to incorporate sulfur for n-type doping).. No.. They are made by very tiny people.. the camera is normal sized, it's the image plane that is well magnified. This works out because this instrument is using electrons, which can be more precisely controlled than light (as the wavelength of visible light is relatively big compared to this length scale). I just wondered the same thing.  I wonder if there is some sort of temperature gradient.. This. I want to know why this is seemingly so ordered when intuitively you, or at least I, would expect more randomness.

The other response suggests temperature gradient, so the sitting and positioning of one atom shifts the temperature just enough for the next, rinse repeat? 

Or is it that we ARE living in a simulation... :) 

Anyone have other explanations?

. ...it's a scientific paper about theories of step flow growth. It's not trying to make high TRL level nanowires.... >Why can't we see the anything in the droplet, or any kind of gradient?

We only see the GaAs lattice because it is well aligned with the electron beam. If the Au droplet is amorphous or misaligned, you won't see atomic rows.

>[...] solidification happens across an extended region due to packing effects near the surface. Here we see the old view of what solidification looked like, one layer being deposited at a time.

There are a few [images](https://i.imgur.com/JmhVuVf.png) and videos in the paper that make the phase front easier to see. The bird's eye view video in the OP was intended to provide a two-dimensional visualization.. For the interested, a bit of an intro in the peculiar case of physics in 0D-, 1D-, 2D-materials vs physics in bulk-materials can be found under Section 1.5 in the following [.pdf](https://www.google.se/url?sa=t&source=web&rct=j&url=https://www.springer.com/cda/content/document/cda_downloaddocument/9783319449197-c1.pdf%3FSGWID%3D0-0-45-1591880-p180204396&ved=2ahUKEwiw3NP97JPeAhWEhiwKHaDPCSoQFjAAegQIBBAB&usg=AOvVaw2dmlnBvp5KJOkFPI7Whol_). . The solid atoms are well ordered in a crystal lattice, the gold atoms are completely without order since it's a liquid. 

The electron beam used to image a solid is chosen specifically for the crystal structure and spacing of the solid. Therefore the beam doesn't image this gold droplet since there is no way to predict what arrangement the gold atoms are in.. This was a transmission electron microscope (TEM). Basically it shoots a very narrow beam of electrons through the sample. Electrons that make it through will hit a detector on the other side of the sample. Some electrons are blocked by the atoms in the sample, which is why those atoms appear as dark spots in the image.. How fucking cool is the paper?!. As long as it can do diamonds I'll pay whatever it costs.. I just spent way too much money on a non-functional home crystal printer :(. I've been playing with a not-so-hot microscope and was surprised that I could see things that were in the 1-2um range. Seeing crystals at the nm level seems relatively big.. Whats the most surprising thing you have seen with a TEM? I've only even been in the room with an old SEM for a demo, it was cool but the magnification was turned way down to look at a fly.. Where are you located, if I may ask? :) . Oh okay, cool! I realized after I commented that I could've just read the article, but thanks for summing it up!. Is this then being used for transistors?. > as the crystal gets formed, the electrons go through the crystal differently, so you can see the atoms

Probably not. Being able to see the atoms as they condense is due to a few factors:

* The condensed atoms become stationary, whereas the atoms in the droplet are constantly moving.
* The condensed atoms are aligned in rows, and a row of atoms is easier to image than an individual atom.. I honestly had no idea, that's crazy. It's amazing how quickly these things can happen.. I guess I didn't necessarily mean the science, but rather how it would visually look. The stacking of chains of balls is scarily true. Also, I always hated those know-it-all kids during the end segment. AKSHUALLY's, the lot of them. . **Czochralski process**

The Czochralski process is a method of crystal growth used to obtain single crystals of semiconductors (e.g. silicon, germanium and gallium arsenide), metals (e.g. palladium, platinum, silver, gold), salts and synthetic gemstones. The process is named after Polish scientist Jan Czochralski, who invented the method in 1915 while investigating the crystallization rates of metals.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. Thanks for a proper answer.. Ah awesome, thanks for that!. Probably around 294 Kelvin, if it's inside.. [I'd prefer the diamond growth method that uses TNT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Detonation_nanodiamond). But why? There are way more interesting crystals out there than diamonds.. Core-Shell bimetallic nano particles might be the most interesting.. Maryland, why do you ask?. [Possibly!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanowire#Applications) This is a method of growing nanowires, which can be used for transistors, lasers, sensors, and lots of other applications.. Incredible. I don't even know that many people. Much less that many Kelvins. . I love how you guys kept it consistent and used triple digit temperatures.. Because I would print onto steel backers for diamond plates.. For real. Physics is something else!. That's why it's so cool. If they're all inside, no wonder the sample became hot.. The real question tho, how hot is Kelvin? . I knew a Kelvin once. Pretty chill dude. . Not very. He's been 6 feet under, looking up at the daisies for over a century. Happy Birthday to the 'Father of Relativity' Albert Einstein. nan. TIL einsteins bday is pi day. Happy bday bro. Today is also the third anniversary of Stephen Hawking’s death. And that man’s name... Was Albert Einstein.. Its my birthday. Happy Birthday Einstein. Fear not, we continue the work you started.. He was a Pisces??? Well that explains EVERYTHING! 🤣🤪. That should be Galileo.. The more I learn about his work, the better I understand how he was the biggest scientist to ever live.. Do they really all have blue eyes?. His son is called relativity? Thats a shitty name for a child. Fun fact: Einstein‘s favorite chess opening as white was the Rui Lopez.. The true father of relativity is Galileo... requiescat in pace magister.. *Father of modern physics. [deleted]. The Theory of Relativity is nonsense imo. [This video](https://youtu.be/_j9wms5KpWQ), explains why.. If he's the Father of Relativity, what does that make Henri Poincare?. As a father he might have been a relatively relatable relative.. Happy Birthday to me too...🙄😬. He wasn’t smart enough to make himself live forever. It still just totally blows me away that we didn't know who was related to whom until Einstein came along.  'Father of Relativeness' indeed.. The inventor of gravity!. Principal Einstein, thinking about the aether hypothesis: "Well, there is no difference in c ~~aether~~ either. Is Maxwell so out of touch? No, it's absolute space-time who is wrong.". Is it just em or are we wasting Russell Crowe’s career not letting him  play Ulysses S. Grant?. King <3. I share a birthday with this great man. If someone finds out when my birthday is, I always tell them it was also Einstein's birthday. Will they think I'm smarter by association? Probably not, but worth a shot.. Bless him. So you could say he's *related* to relativity. You merely adopted the father of relativity

I was born to him. Einstein is actually dead right?  I've been duped by the Mandala effect enough times that now I just ask the stupid question.... Time is like a river. I believe already Leonardo da Vinci said it and we all know rivers are not linear flowing ;). In my general relativity course we just reached the full Einstein equations. The timing could not have been more appropriate!. Well, Time is relative so he is yet to be born.. He was a communist.. This just showed up in my notifications - talk about time dilation.... Who’s this fuckin weirdo with the puffy hair? I keep seeing people posting about him. Is he a meme or something?. It’s also Stephen Hawking’s passing away day :(. He tried to get born on e = mc^(2) but the cosmological constant was being evasive.. A sad day. and then everybody clapped. end my suffering. I was born exactly 100 years after him and I like physics too but similarities end there. Not to take anything away from him, but Newton, Laplace and Euler all have pretty good track records as well. [deleted]. Newton has entered the chat.. Depends on your frame of reference. \*Ruy Lopez.   Einstein and literally every other amateur chess player.. Maybe you can shed some light on this; I have actually heard before that Einstein wasn't proficient in maths to the point that he could work through all the equations of relativity by himself. Which wouldn't be surprising since he wasn't a mathmatician. He's supposed to have called in the help of a friend. Is that true? And if so, who did he  call?. Seriously, Einstein the amount of math that goes into GR is still the equivalent of a masters degree in math today. TLDW?. Poincaré is definitely underrated as a physicist. Because that would be idiotic. 2021 - 1879 = 142

Yeah no he probably is.. I choose to believe he did that on purpose.. How does this make sense?? 

There's enough upvotes that someone must get it... but I don't.   ...What does the cosmological constant have to do with some arbitrary rest mass?. Do you comb your hair?. Like him: I love physics, have a germanic family background, have unruly hair, and don't know how to drive. Can't say I'm the father of any fields of physics though.. Only an idiot would disagree with you. I have an special respect for Newton. He literally invented his own math for the physics that he wanted.. Laplace and Euler didn’t do much for science.  Euler is def a top 3 for math, however.  I’ll take Einstein over Newton any day. Lol I bet Einstein could calculate Brahe’s space time curvature. But seriously Einstein was something else. Started a new physics called relativity and finished it in what 30 years? Then proceeded to predict things with his theory that are still being proven after 100 years. Also proceeded to help start another physics called Quantum physics.. I play Ruy Lopez a lot, and I bet I can beat you with it. Add me on chess.com if you want to lose. I think this story may somehow relate to the development of [Minkowski space-time](https://hsm.stackexchange.com/questions/9975/what-was-the-relationship-between-einstein-and-minkowski). Minkowski was Einstein's professor and, at that time and confirmed by Einstein, Minkowski found his student to be  unmotivated.

Later on, when Einstein found that he needed the math, he was quick to give credit to Minkowski for his work. He was also very quick to pick up the math (now that he was sufficiently motivated). I do not believe there ever was much direct communication between the two, however.

>Though Minkowski took an important step for physics, Albert Einstein saw its limitation:

   >>[At a time when Minkowski was giving the geometrical interpretation of special relativity by extending the Euclidean three-space to a quasi-Euclidean four-space that included time, Einstein was already aware that this is not valid, because it excludes the phenomenon of gravitation. He was still far from the study of curvilinear coordinates and Riemannian geometry, and the heavy mathematical apparatus entailed.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minkowski_space). Ok good.  You can never be to careful.. You’re saying a man who defied the odds and lived with Lou Gehrigs disease for 5 decades had some level of will over the timing of his death?.. Nahh no way. but.... It’s my birthday too, but I didn’t do that on purpose.. Jokes can seem funny and even be funny even if they don't make any sense at all.


**W E E D  E A T E R**. It was in the 1600s, though. I'm pretty sure Einstein would've had it harder had he needed to invent/discover riemannian geometry and Ricci calculus.. Watch out, we got a real badass over here. This is very educational, thank you!. Well, if you are close to die and you like phisics as well as mathematics, this would be a good last objective in life if you are close to that day... So if you fight for it, you can live some extra hours.. Right, but in /r/physics, I'd expect the physics side of the joke to make sense and even be funny.  XKCD is great for this.  There's often multiple levels of humor and it makes sense from a technical perspective.. what do you mean badass? I‘m inviting you to a match. You can decline if you think that you‘ll lose. I agree, complex jokes are more interesting...

Also, XKCD is awesome!. I’m just not sure why you were so threatened by my comment?. I‘m not offended, I just think you‘re talking without knowing what you are actually talking about. I would google the „dunning-kruger“ effect for further info. How is correcting the spelling of Ruy Lopez and pointing out that its the most popular chess opening among amateur players talking without knowing?. because it doesn’t matter? I pointed out a fact about einstein, and you‘re trying to show off your knowledge and imply how „good“ of a chess player you are. But nobody asked how good you are. This is not the right subreddit for this. But coming back to the Ruy Lopez, it is still used in pro games and gives you a good buildup.. Did I ever say anything about the quality of my chess play?  I was just pointing out the popularity of the Ruy Lopez and thus that it’s not surprising that it was his favorite chess opening.. again, read my last comment. This conversation is finished.. I’m still confused as to why you took offense to my comment.  Pm me your chess.com username if you actually want a match ;) Happy birthday, Nikola Tesla!. nan. I think my favorite fact about him is that he used to insist he’s from the planet Venus and that he was in contact with other people from there telepathically. 

Also, Trump’s uncle was the one that went to Tesla’s lab after Tesla died to see if the government could use any of his experiments. . If you steal a Tesla, does it become an Edison?. I'm so happy with this thread. I hate the cult behind Tesla. He was interesting, but not exceptional. . I share birthday with him, which might explain a thing or two if i were into astrology.... What a babe. . deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.6995  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/29766). A man who understood that achievement of the seemingly impossible is the noblest goal in life.. https://imgur.com/LDY2oYf.jpg. He must be really pleased with his car company.. He did work with Michael Faraday’s Disk (1831) showing it’s not a generator and points out it’s a collector. To give free power to the world combine  the Disk with a Starship Coil, it’s magnetic lines of force don’t bend around from north to south, and the disk doesn’t break lines of force and it’s output is exponential.

I have a question for someone smart!
If you was to 3D Print a cylinder of the least conducive metal with a cavity inside that forms the Starship Coil... here lies great opportunity to make it more compact, instead of making the Coil with a wire shape, make it with like a strip of paper shape.

And you fill this least conducive Metal shaped cylinder with a cavity inside that is the shape if the Starship Coil and fill it with a more conducive Liquid, Metal based or not doesn’t matter as long as it has the opportunity of working.

Seal up the cylinder with better conducive contacts than the metal of the cylinder itself

And send current through the contacts,
Does the electricity just jump straight through disregarding the better conductor that is in the shape of the Coil?
Or does it (mostly maybe or all of it) flow through the liquid Coil giving you a magnet field?

And if it does work could it reach a point where it gets too much current bypassing the Coil and shutting off the magnetics from the Starship Coil?. Happy birthday! Didn't even know I have the same birthday as him.. This is the only person I know who is better looking than the person who played them in the movie.. I'm sure his wife mourned his loss.

http://www.birdsinbackyards.net/sites/www.birdsinbackyards.net/files/styles/extra-large/public/forum/Sandgroper/images/IMG_4268%20%281024x819%29.jpg?itok=S1Qz6C5U. Fuck Tesla and fuck Tesla culture. Sorry but posts about Tesla should be banned.

They just attract morons and electric universe crackpots.. Happy birthday and thanks for your hard work that has benefitted us all.. how many days did you wait to make some karma on r/Physics ?. Fact about Tesla, he suffered from OCD. He contributed some great things while battling what I can only describe as life-and-death agony. That’s remarkable to me and I thought I’d share. . Thanks.. I did my Eagle Scout project at his laboratory on Long Island . Happy birthdays . HB!!. I find him electrifying . A good time to watch this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6331JXvOUGY. He set fire to a bunch of butterflies.. TESLA. We are all Tesla on this blessed day . R/iamverysmart. Dam Tesla, overshadowing my birthday . [Born on the 10th of July, 1856](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikola_Tesla); 162 years ago.. Nikola Tesla, inventor of the alternating current. the whole tesla death ray theory is interesting though. . Happy birthday my favorite mad genius!  Here's to the man, the myth and the legend. . Nikola Tesla, father of the brain.. Happy birthday, Tesla! You have changed the world, thanks for everything.. [removed]. I guess this guy had superior help. He invented the AC motor, and worked on designing the first hydropower plant. The courts ruled he was the one who invented wireless transmission. As for being insane, well he certainly was especially later in life. The AC motor was a marvel at the time, conceptually now it may be obvious but DC motors required direct contact, burnt out and smelled aweful. And to those of you who would credit someone else, just remember we credit Newton with creating calculus even though someone beat him too it. We do however use his notation. We gotta remember that before the internet the transmission of information was very slow, and it's not as if these people were copying each other. (Some may have). . [removed]. [deleted]. [removed]. Way ahead of his time. . [removed]. One of if not the smartest man in history however he was also insane. So much knowledge can damage someone's mind shame to think what he may of discovered if he was a bit more well you know..... W Rizz. He also mastubated 3 times a day. He definitely had delusions of grandeur later in his life . I don't doubt it. Me too! And now I can legally drink. Happy Birthday, stranger!. It would also explain your unreasonable hatred of fat people and Jews, Teslas disdain for these two is well known.
. You love pigeons too!?. That's actually really neat. You'll never forget his birthday.. Did you also marry a pigeon?. My birthday too!. He is definitely good looking I feel sad that he didn't see his invention potential :/. Because death rays! Wireless power transmission! He invented basically everything! /s. He's a cool scientist. He's definitely overrated, but he's still cool.. The Tesla and Feynman circlejerk is ridicoulous. I want to write an article on the contribution Tesla Actually had with his inventions. 

Not to say he wasn't notable. He was as notable as any scientist nowadays if you ask me. I am just so sick and tired of Reddit's obsessive hype over him. . [removed]. Why ? If you mean the Tesla car than yes it's becoming more as a cult just like apple .

But this guy gave us so much .. I don't think posts about Tesla should necessarily be banned, however I do agree that it brings out a lot of crackpots who think he knew a lot of true things about electromagnetism.. This entire statement is an insult to Tesla and science itself. Censoring a great scientist's career because of the shortcomings of modern followers is nonsense.. Like?. I saw it on the news today (I’m Croatian and Tesla was born here) and thought why not, since nobody else did it . Speak for yourself.. >Serbian American inventor

*screams in croatian*. Tesla advocated for the use of alternating current. He didn't "invent" it (it's the natural form of electricity from a generator). . Inventor of the ac motor. Extremely debatable. . What about it? . How?. Yeah, fuck Newton, Einstein, Maxwell or Darwin, there was once a guy who was a very good inventor.. If any of you people knew shit about Tesla you would recall his penchant for hyperbole.. [removed]. [removed]. Hahaha pretty interesting how that information must have been leaked. . that rarely? . were they really delusions tho? . Bet everyone else believed it as well. Hey, happy birthday!. Happy birthday homie enjoy getting hammered today!!!. Hey I’m drinkin! Wooo
Happy birthday!. I hope you have the best worst night of your life!. Dilly dilly!. Wait, Its my birthday too.. [deleted]. Birthday bros! . https://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2012/05/18/nikola-tesla-wasnt-god-and-thomas-edison-wasnt-the-devil/#262f6e601a21. I'd love to read it.. [removed]. What did he give us?. the many comments on here are proof of it. mind you many are removed already. He wasn't a scientist. He was a middling inventor. The fact you think that he was anything notable in physics and this post is so highly upvoted is the death knell for this as an actual physics sub.. Tesla wasn’t a great scientist and in fact was a kook. He had some neat inventions, and helped jump start the electricity revolution, but he was an early Electric Universe proponent, had a pretty poor grasp of science for his day and didn’t contribute anything to our understanding of the world. He was even a medical quack who tried to market ozone therapy and make school children smarter through saturating school rooms with high frequency electromagnetic fields. He also didn’t think electrons existed and was among the early relativity deniers. His modern followers are not so different from him, though being even less scientifically competent.. It's an insult to "Tesla worshippers" which is well deserved.

Some of his contributions were legitimate. Some of his contributions were nonsense.

Through little fault of his today in 2018 still people exist who have no idea of physics and perpetuate some of the nonsense of his that was debunked more than 100 years ago. They are indeed morons.

In fact I am waiting for the first person to make such a comment to this post.. [removed]. I am all Tesla on this blessed day.. ~~He didn’t invent the AC motor. He invented an improved design.~~

Edit: Actually, he was one of two inventors of the AC motor. It was the polyphase generator that he improved upon.. Go for it, smart guy.. [deleted]. He is an example to be followed. Do what ever you want for love! This is the key of success.. The alternate current. Besides that, he studied electricity and other areas of physics because he loved that, he wanted to make a difference and he achieved.. Aside from Maxwell, which one impacted your life more? The discoveries of Newton, Eistein, Darwin or Tesla? Pretty easy to figure out as long as you have a grasp of each one's story.. Funny how you didn't mention the two geniuses who may actually qualify for having the massive impact Tesla had. Via the plumbing my good sir. I see you’re a man of culture aswell. [deleted]. Me too! Happy birthday to us!. A bit late to the party, but yesterday was totally my birthday too.  It is also the day Wyoming became a US state.  Shall we all meet up in Wyoming and build a Tesla coil next year?. > Tesla contributed immensely to human progress.

Nope. He was a middling engineer and anti-science.. Oh thank you :D. [removed]. [removed]. Uhhh....fucking alternating current, the fundamental enabling technology of the modern world?  


Jesus. [deleted]. Just because a post attracts *some* degree of nonsense doesn’t mean it should be banned and withheld from its legitimacy. Literally every post would be banned then  

Crackpots and nut jobs will show up anywhere . You must be so smart man. [removed]. [This video clears up common misconceptions](https://youtu.be/6331JXvOUGY). Oh look, someones read an oatmeal comic and now thinks they are a historian of science. . How did he change the world.. Marrying a pigeon is an example to be followed? Ok ... I guess "Do what ever you want for love" .... He was a kook, he doesn't belong on a physics sub, in fact neither do you.. He did not invent alternating current, this is a meme spread by bad internet history. He was a mediocre inventor who rejected real physics, do you relies he refused to ever accept that electrons were 
 a real particles? As the AC wasn't true can you name another thing?. Newton literally revolutionised physics, he standardised mechanics and invented the calculus (and that's with two hands tied behind his back as he wasted most of his time with alchemy and religious conspiracies).

Einstein was one of the founding fathers of quantum mechanics (that's what he got his only Nobel prize for), you can thank him for the computer your currently using. He also developed relativistic physics that allow us to accurately model the universe to allow stuff like GPS to work. 

Tesla argued for already existing technologies and got a bit too close to some pigeons, amazing. 
. Well, Newton invented modern science by marrying forever physics and math, plus he invented calculus, so yeah, Newton wins hands down, sorry. . Tesla didn't do shit. He didn't invent AC. We don't even use any of his motors.. If you think Tesla had a bigger impact than Newton it must be because you have no idea what Newton did. . I see what you did there 😏. you'd think the way a pigeon would really not be able to "serve" him well, he'd have been going about his business more frequently. ahhhh,  yes.   but did the pigeon love him back?  who are we to judge? . I’m in on this birthday train too!. You're welcome! Looking back made me remember how much I hate that bloody Oatmeal Tesla comic. [removed]. https://teslaresearch.jimdo.com/list-of-tesla-patents/. [deleted]. DYOR not parroting the web.... What on earth. Well, it's just a random picture of Tesla. No article. No discussion of any of his legitimate work. Worse: No refresher on how his illegitimate work was debunked (if it even needs debunking and isn't outright nonsense). Like this this is just an image post which is discouraged by the rules of this subreddit anyway, see sidebar.

>Images and meme posts

>Image-only posts should be on-topic and should promote discussion.

I agree with you that

>Crackpots and nut jobs will show up anywhere 

though. Nope, as a physicist I think electric universe crackpots / "Tesla worshippers" do a great disservice to education and contribute a lot of misinformation on the internet. Do you disagree?. [deleted]. If googling: "Who invented alternating current" constitutes grad level work to you, then I'd like to know what university you're at, because that grad program sounds like a hell of a bargain. . Sorry man, I made a mistake . Einstein also rejected quantum indeterminism and took issue with entangled particle states for many years. That doesn't make him any less brilliant. 

As for your comment that he was a mediocre inventor, that's rather inaccurate. He had over 300 patents, many of which involved the improvement of AC motors and oscillators. Together with George Westinghouse, Tesla created the first hydroelectric power plant at Niagra Falls, something his modern detractors often fail to credit him for.  

His rejection of subatomic particles and continued support of the luminiferous aether despite the results of the Michelson-Morley experiment shouldn't discount any of his actual accomplishments. Furthermore, Tesla held patents on various methods of wireless communications, but lost control of these patents in 1904 to Marconi, who is today credited as being the inventor of modern radio communications. Prior to that, Marconi had disputed Tesla's patents multiple times in court, to no avail. However, in 1943, the US Supreme Court invalidated sections of Marconi's 1904 patent rights in favor of Tesla's, in no small part due to the fact that Marconi Wireless was suing the US Government.

Tesla may not be the electrical superman, but he *did* provide important contributions.. You must be right but we can’t forget the passion that he had to do his stuffs. . The only people I will thank for the computer I am using is Alan Turing for setting the foundation and Nikola Tesla for the electricity required to operate, as you should. Eistein's theory was the foundation of weapons of mass destruction in the name of science and had the russian general that had his submarine sank ordered the launch of nuclear missiles during the cold war, his theory would really be put into action and wipe us all out. And aside from useless space exploration, his theory is barely put into use on earth. The only thing that comes even close to being useful to your average Joe are nuclear plants which are massively underdeveloped and barely make up for the electricity needs of the western world.. Yeah I'm sure you're definitely *not* using Gottfried Leibniz's model for calculus in your courses. Maybe if Newton had succeeded in his attempts at alchemy I'd agree with you.. Yeye. Is this still about nicola fapping?. I hate to brag but I share a birthday with Al Gore. Me too!. [removed]. None of these are exactly true and most are completely wrong.

> Tesla coil

Haven't been used for practical purposes for almost 100 years. A great teaching tool though yeah.

>induction motors

Invented by Otto Blathy. The three-phase version was independently invented by Galileo Ferraris (the guy that arguably invented AC). And Tesla's version was never actually used in any product. The first practical induction motor was based on a different two-phase version similar to Otto's.

>first person to take an Xray

No. That would be Wilhelm Röntgen. Where do people come up with this shit? Why is the internet continually assigning others work to Tesla?

https://old.the-scientist.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/07_11_Foundations01.jpg

>commercial use of neon lights

Invented by William Ramsay and Morris W. Travers. Commercial use was completely the work of Georges Claude who first presented them at the 1910 Paris Motor Show.

>first major hydroelectric powerplant

This was done in 1882 at Fox River in Appleton, Wisconsin before Tesla ever wrote a paper or submitted any patent.

>early RC transmission

First demonstrated by Oliver Lodge and demonstrated publicly by Guglielmo Marconi.. The post is not aimed towards Tesla "worshippers" and just censoring a person whose contribution shaped the modern world just because a random redditor wanted so is nonesense.. Yes, that is almost entirely subjective.. I seriously don't think you should bother with physics. Your not really cut out for it. . I suggest you search your own query. People are wanking in a circle over a picture of tesla but have never fucking heard of Faraday. . >  Tesla created the first hydroelectric power plant at Niagra Falls

Incorrect.. Many completely wrong people have been passionate why aren't we celebrating them?. > Nikola Tesla for the electricity required to operate

Tesla did not invent AC. We do not use any motors he invented either. This is nonsense and is destroying the legacy of actual scientists responsible for our technology. The internet is responsible for this bullshit.. [removed]. Just because we don't use Newton's convention about calculus that doesn't mean that we don't use his ideas about how calculus relates to physics. 
Newton introduced a lot of conventions about how science is done and reported that are still the basis for scientific research today, the fact that he believed in alchemy and had really weird religious ideas means nothing to either the value of his other contributions or his genius, it's more remarkable in my opinion the fact that he was one of the last great scientists to believe in stuff like that and his methods in physics were partly to thank for that. Plus Tesla had a lot of pseudoscientific beliefs and was actively against relativity, so...
And the most important of all,  he gave mathematical proof for the heliocentric model while validating Kepler's laws, tying celestial motion to everyday motion and giving Dynamics to Galileo's Kinematics all at the same time, his laws of motion are embedded in everything in classical physics including electromagnetism, Tesla was cool for figuring out how to transmit electricity through the air, but who was the OP of action by distance? . yep. I love to brag and I share the same birthday as NASA. [removed]. It's not "censoring", it's simply classification. This is a sub about physics. What valid contributions to physical or other scientific theories did Tesla make? 

He was an inventor with pretensions to being a scientist, but his scientific work was mostly nonsensical and he was out of his depth compared to his scientific contemporaries, like Einstein whose theories he notoriously criticized.. Are you daft? . Since you wish to be pedantic, fine. 

It was the first large scale hydroelectric *AC* power plant *of that size* at Niagra falls, and world wide. Prior to that, only small scale DC hydroelectric systems existed at Niagra. The Adam’s plant was definitely an engineering feat for its day. . I bet the internet is to blame for your inability to read text as well. Because I do not mention anywhere that Tesla invented AC.. Nice one avoiding all other points I made, pal. Good one. I am neither Serbian nor American so no, I am not a "hardcore Serbian national or something". I just happen to recognize bullshit when I see it. You're all shitting on Tesla even though he had nearly 300 documented patents to his name, patents that have helped the average person much more than anyone that you've mentioned. 

And I do know about quantum physics and while Einstein did INDIRECTLY aid the evolution of quantum physics, I highly doubt his goal was to make a functioning computer or transmit data safely.. Tesla never got energy transmission through the air to work, he did however invent radio controls in the 1890's and was able to figure out transmission of energy through the ground with much less voltage drop than through a standard conductor. There's not a single thing Newton did that hasn't been improved upon, what improvements have been made to the rotating magnetic field? I'm not denying Newton's impact on the planet since his existence, and you must have missed my remark about Tesla's love of hyperbole. And you can't deny that here we are, using technology Tesla invented 100 years ago, still using standards he set (60 herz), on a medium he anticipated.. I don’t get it m’lord. [removed]. I'm sorry so you *completely lied* and I'm being pedantic? That pretty much sums up 90% of the shit said about Tesla. He was an average (slightly above maybe) engineer and he had shit ideas about physics. The internet's need for a counter-culture science god had to be met, damn the lies, and I guess Feynman wasn't enough.. So then explain exactly how Tesla is responsible for the electricity required to operate your computer?. [removed]. > while Einstein did INDIRECTLY aid the evolution of quantum physics

He literally got the nobel prize for one of the first experimentally verified quantum theories of electromagnetic interactions. The fuck are you on about?. given that he was married to a pigeon and a pigeon is presumably pretty bad at satisfying him sexually I'd expect him to be fapping more. [removed]. Lied? Missed a qualifier, maybe, but lied? No. 

It was the first hydroelectric station of any consequence at Niagra Falls, the prior stations generated so little output that their usefulness as stations was pretty much non-existent, and served as experiments only. 

Rather, your attitude regarding those that take interest in any kind of historical figure, regardless of their belief in dubious pseudoscience is pretty disturbing. Feynman deserves praise as well, as do Niels Bohr and Pauli and Heisenberg and Hertz, and so on down the line. I don’t see where anyone has implied otherwise. 

. The induction motor, of course.. Alright dude, as you wish. I at least brought widely known facts to the table about each topic you brought up and expanded on them while you made low effort comments and doubted my knowledge. But sure, I end up being the one who doesn't know anything about anything. . Well that bit of the doc was in the back of my head gaha thx for clearing it up sir haha. [removed]. [removed]. Oh, no it's more than that and you know it. "Tesla created the first hydroelectric power plant at Niagra Falls" <- that's what you said. Truth "Tesla helped build Niagra Falls largest hydroelectric power plant at the time." There's a whole lot of wrong in what you wrote. Implying that it was the first hydroelectric power plant. Implying that it was the first at Niagra Falls. Implying that he invented it.

Here are other things people claimed he invented in this thread through such "implying."

>induction motors

Invented by Otto Blathy. The three-phase version was independently invented by Galileo Ferraris (the guy that arguably invented AC). And Tesla's version was never actually used in any product. The first practical induction motor was based on a different two-phase version similar to Otto's.

>first person to take an Xray

No. That would be Wilhelm Röntgen. Where do people come up with this shit? Why is the internet continually assigning others work to Tesla?

https://old.the-scientist.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/07_11_Foundations01.jpg

>commercial use of neon lights

Invented by William Ramsay and Morris W. Travers. Commercial use was completely the work of Georges Claude who first presented them at the 1910 Paris Motor Show.

>first major hydroelectric powerplant

This was done in 1882 at Fox River in Appleton, Wisconsin before Tesla ever wrote a paper or submitted any patent.

>early RC transmission

First demonstrated by Oliver Lodge and demonstrated publicly by Guglielmo Marconi.

Ironically, in the end the push back from this idiotic hero worship is going to taint the actual legacy of Tesla, just as it's tainting the legacy of those people who's works are being claimed as Tesla's by third parties.. You mean like invented by Otto Blathy? The three-phase version was independently invented by Galileo Ferraris (the guy that arguably invented AC). And Tesla's version was never actually used in any product. The first practical induction motor was based on a different two-phase version similar to Otto's. So no.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed] I am always impressed at undergraduates' ability to break physics. nan. In one exam in undergrad we had a problem about modeling nuclear fission as quantum tunneling or something to that effect. Part of the problem was calculating the probability of a neutron escaping the nucleus. Being a probability equation, I was expecting a number between 0 and 1.

I got 8*10^83. As someone who has graded entirely too many calculus exams, I feel your pain. 

I do like contextualizing the bad answers though. I once had a student answer a simple "how long was the ball in the air" type problem with something in the ballpark of 58 minutes. Which napkin-math puts at an initial velocity of about Mach 5.. "Power companies hate him!". I once got a test question with 

A) all of the below 
B) C# 
C) Python
D) none of the above. 

The answer to the question was D but I asked my professor later and he was almost giggling when I mentioned the question. It was a joke question but I was so confused still. 

Who the fuck puts All of the below for an answer?. Missing decimal? Either way, impressive ability . A colleague of mine once gave an astrophysics exam, where one of the questions was to calculate the time it took for Apollo 11 to get to the Moon. The answers he got from the students ranged between half an hour and two years.. You seem to be operating under the delusion that most undergrads consider physical reality when writing down answers.

I've had biochem students tell me that the contour length of a common protein was three times the circumference of the Earth before. On a homework assignment. Not an exam where they're under time pressure. I tend to be more understanding there.

I'm not biochemist, and last took a bio class in high school (long story as to how I ended up TAing this class), but on the face of it the answer should be obviously wrong. Then again, the biochem undergrads I've taught over the last four years have been getting progressively worse about this, and the most recent group thinks it's hilarious when I refer to things as "unphysical".

To be clear, these are juniors/seniors.. [deleted]. I did stuff like that in college where I knew my answer made no sense, but showing my work in how I got there gave me more points than if I left it blank.. I'm more surprised by the graduates students inability to explain things clearly leading to lab reports like this. 

Edit. Source, am a TA and see this more times than not from students of other TA's who don't/can't teach properly. . If this were a test/timed activity I'd sympathize. If I'm in a test and get an answer I know is wrong, I'll just leave it and move on. I'm sure many a TA have looked at a few of my answers and just shook their heads in disappointment. . Give 'em a break if they don't use LaTeX.. This feels legally sketchy. . We were measuring specific heat capacity of air and argon.  Turned out argon had 3.5 degrees of freedom (which could be legit), and air had 6 (which couldn't). And a totally botched measurement by Clement-Desormes, got 5.8, 8, 10, 20....

funny thing was, we got full credit, because the prof liked the idea of "effective degrees of freedom" as a measure for energy capacity... or because not a single group did the measurement right on that day :D. I cant tell you how many classmates Ive had that will see responses like this and resign that they just arent cut out for it. These werent star students or anything, and there is an argument to be made that a good student doesnt need the help, but as a teacher it is your job to cater to both the academically inclined and uninclined.

it kind of irks me you didnt just say 100% is the max efficiency (despite unlikelihood to the point of near impossibility of ever actually reaching that, as far as the average joe is concerned) and I think interacting with students in this way has potential to harm them.

Of course tie it back to the law of thermodynamics, but not just straight telling them what they did wrong kind of implies “well you obviously didnt study, so go look back at the laws” when it could just as easily be a misunderstanding of how efficiency percentages work or some stupid slipup, like accidentally dividing what is possible by what the actual power output is, resulting in an arbitrarily large number.

Encouraging them to figure it out for themselves is a splendid thing to do, but by merely saying 100% is the max you instantly assure they will never make that mistake again.

Maybe Im just overanalyzing, but being as clear as possible when a student makes a mistake is no doubt going to help them correct it. 

I always hated seeing my classmates get frustrated because of stuff like that is all.
. I remember a mechanics A-level exam I had to calculate the center of mass of an odd looking shape, and I somehow decided that √(1+1) = 1 giving a CoM outside of the shape. . 100% chance he was writing this the night before and you can pinpoint the exact instant he hit "fuck it". "Ok I fixed my mistake, now it's 100% efficient!"

"Impossible. See Second Law of Thermodynamics". You'd say that common sense is -as the term says- common, but trust me... it is not.

While no ground breaking physics, one of my students calculated that runners reach speeds of around 750.000 km/s and went on to calculate the rest of the problem with that number. He didn't once stop to think that perhaps it might not be normal for human beings to outrun both Superman and light.. We've all been there, and that's okay, but it seems better to at least include a statement acknowledging that the solution is bonkers. . You don't know if it can or can't be done until you try it. /s. I got my undergrad degree in astrophysics, fuck you OP, writing "impossible, see first law of thermodynamics" while witty, is very unhelpful and snide.

I hope you followed up with at least marking where they went wrong in their calculation.. The TiO^2 is killing me too .... My friend and I were working on an astro problem about finding the wavelength of something - don't remember exactly (maybe de broglie). Anyway, we found a wavelength like 8000 or some such the width of the universe...

Don't know what happened, but we fixed it. . First law of thermodynamics is that we don't talk about thermodynamics.. This was me a couple of years ago. Calculations that were orders of magnitudes off from any realistic values that I somehow thought were reasonable were a common theme of my first year.. In this classroom we obey the laws of thermodynamics!. In the labs of undergraduates the teachers always says that we must report all our results, if we came to nonsense like that, the score is given in how we tell what failed in the experiment, I’ve gotten velocities superior to c with errors on +-c. . I lobbied my thermodynamics professor, in writting on my exam, to submit my exam to the Nobel committee for consideration since I solved the worlds energy problems by showing that the diesel cycle can be 250&#37; efficient. . When I was taking AP Physics my senior year in high school, at the end of the year our teacher put us through "Gauntlet Week", in which he gave us one week's worth of class time (8-10 hours) to complete every single exam he had given us over the entire year, all fifteen of which we were given 2+ hours to complete the first time.

The first test of the year was a pretty simple unit conversion test, nothing really to do with physics per se but it helped with our algebraic problem solving. There was one question on this test in which we were given a few rough estimates and asked to approximate the amount of cells in a human body. 

While we were taking this exam during Gauntlet Week, one of my 6 classmates suddenly burst out laughing. Once he calmed down enough to tell us what happened, he told us he had gotten an answer to the aforementioned question.

A whopping 800 cells, he determined.. Im amazed by how poorly physics professors teach in undergrad. Its a shame. Nanomaterials at UTS? Small world.. Not defending the answer or anything, but saying "impossible, see first law of thermodynamics", while great for Reddit karma, is not what I would call constructive feedback for the student.. People who don't check what they say or write. What grade is this? Is this college?. Wait I'm confused here power output of sun is 1360 W/M^2 
Wouldn't tht make the efficiency 1000% 
Am I doing something wrong here 
13.6kW/M^2 seems like a lot. The sad part is, even if you lowered it by an order of magnitude, it would still break the laws of physics.. When I TA’d physics 1, I would make a point to save the most ridiculous answers every semester and put them on a worksheet so that I could use them as a review - can anyone tell me what’s wrong with this answer and why? kinda deal. Plus it was funny. I wonder about how universal the first law of thermodynamics is.

Does the first law hold true even to the beginning of our universe? I'm not sure.. That’s a very powerful cell. And I thought I took the mickey with line spacing.... That is gold. As a professor I can totally relate and am kinda of happy it affects more than myself.. What if they did and solves the universes greatest mysteries? . *laughs*
*pauses and releases I’m an undergrad*

:(. Only one way to learn . well solar energy is about 1kW/m2, so 1360&#37; seems valid if it produces 13.6kW/m2.. Umm, isn't it Second Law of thermodynamics though? First law is just q = u + w right? . I wish I was smart enough to understand this.. Clearly doesn’t apply here, but the student might be confused because things like heat pumps can have thermodynamic efficiencies of greater than 100%.. The researchers suggest that intelligent behavior stems from the impulse to seize control of future events in the environment. This is the exact opposite of the classic science-fiction scenario in which computers or robots become intelligent, then set their sights on taking over the world. . [deleted]. 😂😂😂. The real crime is TiO^2. r/iamverysmart . Correct me if I’m wrong, but doesn’t the first law of thermodynamics state that energy can neither be created or destroyed, but only transferred? I may be a little confused, but how does that law apply to this particular scenario. Heat pumps have at least 100% efficiency though. I'm guessing the micron cell isn't a heat pump so the criticism is still valid.. I remember I once dropped an ħ^4 in a neutron star calculation on a quantum exam (50 minutes, on paper)

After the exam, I remarked to the professor that one of my answers seemed high. He told me the correct value. I told him my answer was a bit high:

Him: "Ah well, what's an order of magnitude or two between friends."

Me: "What about 130 orders of magnitude?:

Him: "Oh.". On one exam I had to calculate how far a submarine sank. I got ~5,600 km. I don't think that was the right answer.. [deleted]. I vaguely recall doing a calculation in my statmech class where I presumably forgot a bunch of c and hs, and found that the mass necessary for a white dwarf to collapse into a neutron star was greater than the sum of all mass in the universe.. Couple of days ago I had a car going over 100,000 km/h in an engineering exam. I didn't have time to figure out why though, hopefully I'll get some marks for working... . I had to calculate what the relative probability of two decays was once. It was a horrible equation and it took me forever to compute because it was even too long to put in Wolfram alpha

I got 10^10^(22)

Didn't bother going back to correct that one. So you’re telling me there’s a chance.... "Oh, I probably forgot to take the inverse somewhere. 1/( 8*10^83 ) is MUCH more plausible". > I got 8*10^83

That's a yes then?. How would you even calculate this. Alpha particle emission, which is kind of fission I guess? Idk. Meh just normalize it, you’ll be “alright”. I realize that such a probability actually makes no physical sense, but what would it actually imply? Would it require the spontaneous creation of 8×10^(83)-1 neutrons?. I think the problem is that you were concentrated on teaching them how to solve problems rather than teaching them why you are solving the problems. I think you need to put more weights on explaining concepts 🙃💔. [deleted]. I answered a chem question once that asked how much mass evaporates from sweat to cool you down. I answered 74 kg and didn’t have time to go back and figure out what went wrong. . The ball was Newton’s cannonball.. I actually just laughed out loud. And then proceeded to close my eyes and imagine this scenario playing out. Then proceeded to laugh even harder.. [deleted]. ***Create unlimited free energy with this one weird trick!***. "You won't believe the reason.". https://media.giphy.com/media/FI0gKe0bdcTxm/giphy.gif. Especially when one of the answers below is “none of the above.” I think it’s funny. People who fill out all A's on a multiple choice test hoping to get at least 25% credit. . I had a  professor who's multiple choice questions were A through G. A through D or E were typical options, then none of the above, and then various combinations of 2 or more of the primary options. It was maddening.. A should have been a dead give away.
And why gives multi questioms about programming laungueses? . Nobody commented on the paradox? If A is correct, then D is correct, which makes A wrong! XD . At least 2 missing decimals, but let's be honest, it's probably a total miscalculation or 2 somewhere.. Even in Kerbal Space Program half an hour to the Mun is a bit of a stretch. I've seen one hour. Well.. he was not wrong tho... 
It really was a wide range.. but the time it really took is in between those 2 (well closer to half an hour then the full 2 years but well).
. Couldn't you google that? Also infinite because the lunar module wasn't in the question.. I teach seniors in inorganic lab and it's exactly the same. Seniors that don't know basic techniques or how to think, so sad. Just multiply by the metric.. LPT : Never possess shit typing skills.. Just caught that. It's bugging me, too.. I like to add a short sentence like "this can't be true" whenever I run out of time to check for errors. . Work forward from the question, work back from the answer and hope the jump in logic halfway through goes unnoticed.. My advisor makes it a point to go over units and using common sense to estimate if a calculation is reasonable. He even tells them that students will lose major points for not doing this. They still get it wrong.. I don't know, man. I can spend my entire "lecture" time on what something like an efficiency value means or what its limits are and I'll still get reports like this.. All we have to work with is the students' high school preparation..... Yeah, no. I'm an instructor for calculus and other math courses and this is seriously not the case. Even a terrible instructor only swings the class average by about 5% compared to a great one. The students have to put in effort outside of class to learn, so blaming it on the instructor here is wrong.. Don't incentivize not using LaTeX.. The word you're looking for is 'ethically'. Why? It doesn’t have any identifying info or even the student’s handwriting. . > air had 6 (which couldn't)

3 translational, 2 rotational, 1 from the physics-damping effect that exudes from anyone doing a lab under time pressure.. As I said to another post, in OP defense, is not like he's making some obscure reference on some hard to grasp concept, in a test that has you under time pressure

. Physics junior here! A CoM can be outside of a shape (think of a donut). Uh... I mean, it's not like it's saying "impossible, see hdkdn-obscure theorem" . As a grader myself it can be demoralizing to get answers that are this profoundly wrong. I would put 10 to 15 hours per week (bear in mind I was paid for 2 hours a week on this, had other research responsibilities) and then get answers like this. You put in all this time only to realize the students aren't putting in half the time you are, and after grading 25 homeworks a week for 10 weeks, you either stop caring and burn through grading as fast as possible or you lose your mind.. Hi amazed by how poorly physics professors teach in undergrad, I'm Dad!. [deleted]. >	undergraduates. I didn’t know what undergraduate was until now . It's 1.36 kW/m^2. Since physics doesn't really tell us about the beginning of the universe, well.. . I just googled "energy conservation in general relativity" and about half of people say that it's obviously not conserved, about half of people say that it's obviously conserved, and about half of people saying that it depends on whether you believe in pseudotensors.

Can't wait until I learn enough about general relativity to develop a strong opinion on the matter.. First law says you can't have more than 100% efficiency. Second law says you probably can't even have 100% efficiency . ???. Its so efficient that it generates energy out of nowhere; ie breaking the law you stated.... I once had to calculate the speed of a coin to match the kineti energy of a car, I got maby two times the speed of light
. What's the weird h? I'd Google, but I don't know what to look up and I'm on mobile so I can't copy and paste.. Your professor is really cool for saying that. Mine would laugh and tell me to git gud.. > Me: "What about 130 orders of magnitude?:

Meh, [it happens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmological_constant_problem).... better be good friends.. Gotta use them natural units, bro.. >"Ah well, what's an order of magnitude or two between friends."

Does every geeky/nerdy quantum prof say this?. Sometimes it be like that. Just gotta sink through the ocean, the crust, mantle, and the singularity hidden in the core. . I got the boiling point of water at the top of a mountain as ~1e10 K. I wrote "this obviously isn't correct" next to it to angle for the pity mark.. We had a problem on a toy rocket in a physics test in first year and the professor didn't really check the values for accuracy. I worked everything out and got that the rocket had a velocity of above 2000 m/s. I wasted a good 10 mimutes double checking that, couldn't find a mistake but figured it would be wrong for sure. Got full marks for that question. . I once had to calculate the amount of time it takes to fill a half litre bag of blood when donating.  
I got 2x10^-5 segs  

I wrote down "this number is obviously not correct, but I don't have enough time to review the calculation" and moved on. Ended up get like 80% or something on that question because the reasoning was actually ok. You forgot Rule 27 of solving probability questions: Taking a root won't fix any problem with probabilities above 1.. Big if true. It's amazing how many times lately I've felt like I got all the wrong answers when shown them after the fact, but still got good marks for the working etc.

Always show your working folks, even for the simple shit (if you have the time and space). What

They are talking about themselves, how they messed up. They shared their mistake because it's funny. Don't immediately get your knickers in a twist.. Lmao it's college, learn it or get out.. Idk what university you went to but if we don't understand the maths necessary for something you have to a) make an appointment with a lecturer or TA to ask about it b) google it and figure it out c) do badly on that part of the work. . > Much of America does not have proper educational systems in place.

Most of America is doing fine. It's impoverished areas that struggle because we fund schools locally, and social services for children in need typically suck.. There's a "your mom" joke somewhere.... I used to write things on my test like "I *know* that's wrong, but I don't know where I fucked up." I'm pretty sure I got more credit for that.. Bad conversion between ml and mg, maybe?. Some of my teachers used to tell us that in these situations we should write down that we knew the answer was obviously wrong and why. At least it showed them that we grasped something from their courses.. The ISS is in orbit, which means that it has enough angular velocity to keep "missing" the earth as it falls towards it. Anything thrown off the ISS will have that same angular velocity and will stay in orbit, unless you throw it backwards sufficiently fast to cancel this angular velocity and allow it to just fall down back to earth. Seeing as the ISS travels at 27,600 km/h, that's gotta be one hell of a throw.

Edit: momentum should have been velocity, obviously. . >***Create unlimited free ~~energy~~ entropy with this one weird trick!***. Joke question about the differences between something . 1) It was an exam. I don't know about you, but I can't just whip out my phone during an exam and Google all the answers.

2) The question wasn't how long did it take, it was how long it could theoretically take. Calculating the possible time.

3) The question either assumed an orbit or crashing into the Moon. Landing calculations are a little harder, and would take a bit too long.. Yeah just Google that shit (during an exam). If I'm crunched for time I might end up leaving a stupid answer like that, but I also leave a quick note explaining that I know it is wrong. . [deleted]. Prof here. I tend to award more partial credit to students who do this instead of just giving a ludicrous answer and moving on like nothing happened.. Where I attended school we’d almost always be awarded partial credit for stating why our answer couldn’t be true and what a more realistic range might be. . Ahh, proof by obfuscation, a favourite! See also, proof by Intimidation, Phantom Reference, and Divine Inspiration . The intro physics class at my undergrad had a requirement for every homework problem that you needed to write a plausibility statement after your answers. You had to justify why your answer seems to be within the ballpark of what you'd expect. You can't teach to the ability to check for whether an answer is reasonable if they have no reference to how large the units are. The same reason people in America can't give there height in meters. It isn't a unit they are familiar with. Saying "use your common sense" is an awful way of teaching because it can only be considered common sense to someone who works with with physics often. The largest mistake professors make when teaching is forgetting things that to them are common sense/easy to see, are not to others. . Let's be real. Thermo in undergrad is an intro class since most students are taking diff eqs and you really need PDEs to "get" it.

I mean if they get out and understand first law of thermodynamics intuitively I'd consider the student "ok".. I teach my kids pretty hard, and I still get shit explanations in HS.  Some kids just don't follow your instructions and don't acknowledge that what they are doing isn't acceptable.  When you accept a C on something or worse and don't do anything to change it..only so much you can expect.. Not everyone turns up either to be **enlightened** either.. I've taught a lab involving simple machines for five years now and have never had a student give me a efficiency greater than 100%. Why? Because I emphasize why this is impossible and make sure they understand the concepts and aren't just plugging numbers in equations. Sorry, but if a student gave me this paper I would feel some responsibility. Sure there will always be students who don't pay attention/try but a good instructor should absolutely be able to outperform a bad one my much more than 5%. The problem is TA's are thrown into teaching positions with no actual training in teaching and so only the ones who actually care to educate end up putting in the necessary effort to learn how. . As an educator, we are supposed to protect students from ridicule, not take part in it (publicly). Maybe not likely to get back to the student, but still in questionable taste to roll the (many many sided) dice.

All it takes is one redditor friend that says "oh shit, that's stacey's homework!" and you have a very uncomfortable situation on your hand.. yeah haha
me and partner always last out lol

the thing isz we were measuring the adiabatic exponent (kappa thing), and small changes there lead to major changes in the effective f.
like, at the lower boindary of uncertainty, f would be 5.7, the 0.7 could be ecplained by dirty air, shitty tool (it was behaving funny lol) and some 0.3 for other unaccounted effects.
I feel like thats the deal with argon's 3.5.

edit: sorry fo typos, 3AM and Im doing another experiment analysis due at 9AM, this time measuring g with a big (1.5m) steel pendulum and a shitload of corrections due to all those pesky buoyancy effects, the fact that it's a sine in the DE involved and not the angle, the SHAPE OF THE DAMN THING THIS BENCHPRESSING APPARATUS HANGS ON, and other fun stuff.  

I love my physics studies.. It may not be obscure or hard to grasp for you, but for many students it is. Majority of the population struggles with basic algebra. This kind of response to an incorrect answer has the intent of discouraging/ridiculing the student. It isn't a way to teach effectively and honestly makes whoever wrote it an asshole. . CherrEvear said it best, however Id also like to point out that procrastination does in fact exist. Not everyone does their long term work immediately, myself included :). Ok, you're correct there. I guess I was only thinking about the shape that I had to calculate the CoM for (it didn't have any holes).. It's snide, condescending and unhelpful. 

They clearly made an error in their calculation and instead of showing them where they went wrong they pointed them to a basic physics principle that shows at a broad level why the number is ludicrous but doesn't tell them anything in particular.. Errr, as someone who I'm sure put some really dumb and wrong answers, that's not it at all. I put in, and 90% of my classmates (sure some were shitheads but they didn't last 4 years) enormous amounts of effort to get to the level of understanding that I attained which was not enough that I felt I could continue into grad school.

Physics is fucking HARD, some people put in tons of effort and still come up with the wrong answer or can't understand a concept. Sure maybe this person isn't going to be the next Bohr or Feynman but they're probably still trying hard and just coming up short.

I get the argument, too, this is obviously a ludicrous efficiency and the person should have seen that it should be under 100% at the very least but maybe they got through most of the exam and did this and their brain was melting as mine often felt like it was by the end of a rigorous exam and they just stopped caring on that last problem or they just couldn't see it because it became too much.

We don't understand the context or the pressure the student was under when inside a 2 hour window to complete a stupid test which will measure nothing in particular (problem sets are where you can really see how well people are doing). Also the TA who graded this had weeks to do it, probably, and if they got stressed, they could take a break and come back to grading. The student couldn't take a break in the middle of the exam and get back to it the next day.

Triple also, the TA has likely been through this shit before so fuck them for being a dickhead when they should be sympa-fucking-thetic to the student.. I know my class aren't the only ones to do this experiment, but we submitted this exact lab report on Friday and it's being marked over the weekend and returned to us on the 25th.  
Also I checked the OP's post history and they posted about a ZnS nanoparticle lab on the same weekend that my class did that lab too.  
Additionally, the report format is identical to what is requested of us for these lab reports.  . Ok. I'm in the US so correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought that universities worked differently in other countries like the UK, where there isn't really 'undergrad' and 'graduate' school in the same sense as in the US. ... I still don't know what it means.... all about that gamma. I'm curious; how would you start handling this problem? Do you estimate the rough values of the mass of the coin and car, and speed of the car? The only thing that comes to my mind is equating their kinetic energy together as in 0.5mv^2 on both sides of the equation.. Assuming a 1500kg car, a 5g coin, and a car speed of 30m/s (108kph, 67mph):

0.5 Vcoin^2 = 0.5 Mcar/Mcoin * Vcar^2

0.5 is the same on both sides, so get rid of that.

Mcar/Mcoin = 1500kg/5g = 300,000

Vcar^2 = (30m/s)^2 = 900m^(2)/s^2

Vcoin = sqrt(300,000 * 900m^(2)/s^2) ≈ 16,432m/s

That's not much faster than escape velocity. Was your 'car' a battleship with an oversized JATO?. I had a typo in an equation and turned the speed of sound in air to ~0.2 m/s. Lol, what? How? How fast was the car going?. Its reduced planck's constant (commonly called 'h-bar' by physicists). Its a constant that shows up a lot in quantum calculations.. "h bar," it's h/2pi. ħ?  [Reduced Planck’s Constant ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_constant) . It's H-bar, [the voiceless pharyngeal fricative.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voiceless_pharyngeal_fricative) It's like the H sound, but you also squeeze the very back of your tongue against your throat a bit. It occurs in Arabic, where it is represented by the letter ح (or the number 7, if you're using the Arabic Chat Alphabet), and in Maltese, where it is represented by H-bar.. [deleted]. You can't copy pasta on mobile?. it's called h-bar, it's h/2pi. h-bar

Reduced Planck's constant

Its about 10^-34 Joule-seconds.. That's literally the only time I've heard anybody other than myself say it. . I never did well in college labs. I'd always mess something up in the lab, leading to bad results that flew in the face of firmly established physics. So rather than just run with it, I was extremely glib about it all. Used phrases like "either this study was conducted poorly or the last few centuries of scientific thought were wrong."

Apparently I wasn't supposed to do that.. This comment made me giggle.. Have some pity upvotes at least. I do this regularly in exams. Normally when something isn’t going my way and it’s the last few moments of the paper, I’ll write some pathetic, desperate comment like “oh I spotted this too late” or “I wanted to do (xyz) but ran out of time.”

I think it sometimes works, shockingly.. What are pity marks? 

I lost 1% of my over all term grade for taking the reciprocal of lambda when I used:

f(lambda)=c

Lambda=f/c

Instead of c/f. I lost a full percentage off my overall course grade for that. I lost 8% of my overall course grade for messing up another algebraic error. 

Ive made other mistakes too so now Im failing and holy cow this is such bullshit.. I can tell you are not from the US, case and point: “knickers” (also don’t gripe about my assumption if it is wrong), so let me explain something to you. Just because something appears to be the case doesn’t make it so. Have you ever suffered from institutional racism in higher education?

It’s not as common as it used to be, but it still happens in the US. Also, how do you know that it was their homework? I would like to know, please don’t read that question in a hostile tone, because it is not meant to be hostile.

Another thing, just because I write a lot of text doesn’t mean I have my “knickers in a twist”. I just graduated, and I love my university. But, not every university is the same. Education in America is not the same as education elsewhere. Currently our education system is under attack, so excuse me for thinking that someone is being insensitive towards some else’s work...

I deleted my original post because I see now that it is short sighted, but honestly I would like to know how I was supposed to get better context when the OP didn’t say it was their homework.. I went UMass Amherst...

Also, I don’t know what university you go to where you have ample TA’s who aren’t always busy with their own work, a lecturer who isn’t always busy writing grant proposals, and perhaps this student may not have access to a computer of their own.... Are you aware that most of America is not all of America by definition. You know how much of an education George Washington Carver had available to him... 

“Black people were not allowed at the public school in Diamond Grove. George decided to go to a school for black children 10 miles (16 km) south in Neosho. When he reached the town, he found the school closed for the night. He slept in a nearby barn. By his own account, the next morning he met a kind woman, Mariah Watkins, from whom he wished to rent a room. ” [Wikipedia ](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Washington_Carver) 

Yes later on he got a Ph.D... but he was a fighter, a go getter with hope for a better future after slavery was “abolished” in the South. He wanted to make something of himself, but now people are losing hope because their situation, as you pointed out, is desperate with people placing road blocks at every turn they make.. Your mom so fat she evaporates 74 kg of sweat everyday, but that is still statistically insignificant. . I did that too! And definitely received more credit for it.. [deleted]. If you happened to step out of the frictionless, air-resistanceless universe in which physics questions happen and onto the actual ISS you could drop the ball out of the window and eventually drag would slow the ball down enough to bring it back to Earth. 

But that's probably a whole different analysis at that point.

And thinking about it, I'm not 100% sure that the windows on the ISS open, so you probably can't actually do that .... Wait why entropy. Who gets test about drifrences between thing and the anwser is non of the above or either 1 of 2 programmen laungs?
What a wierd test was that. . 1. It was a joke.

2. Get a sense of humour.

3. See 1 and 2.. Having taken a couple of GR/Diff Geo courses, I am always perturbed with how nonchalantly some of my other courses throw indices around, particularly in particle/HEP modules.. Best prof I ever had paid a lot of attention to our thought processes, as documented on the page... people who did poorly in that class were those who didn't show their work, didn't give him anything to go on other than an answer that, more often than not for students who don't keep written track of where their numbers came from, was incorrect.

I had this prof for a whole year, and over that time I made three stupid mistakes and a couple times I just ran out of time. He gave me full points on all of them because he could see that I knew where I was going, even if I didn't quite get there. He considered *that* to be an important teaching moment, rather than a "you screwed up, no A for you" moment, and those are the moments I still remember most clearly.

I would take a bullet for the guy, awesome prof. I tutor undergrad STEM courses, and much of how I deal with students comes from seeing it done *right* that year when I was an undergrad.. My stat mech professor had questions like that all the time. Only problem is how are we supposed to have any expectation those questions. Why does the calculated heat capacity for this Fermi gas seem reasonable? Uhh... because that's what the math said?. I will be stealing this in the future.. Students know how big a meter is, how heavy a kilogram is, or how long a second is. It's pretty obvious that the length of a baseball bat isn't 5 mm or 2 km, that the orbit of a planet isn't 5 seconds, or that there are 10^14 m^3 of water coming through a straw per second.

Even for units they're not as familiar with, there can be common sense wrong answers. If the only voltage source in a circuit is a 5V power supply, the resistor won't have a voltage drop of 10V.. My favourite intuitive understanding of the Laws of Thermodynamics:  
0. You have to play.  
1. You can't win.  
2. You can't break even, except on a really cold day.  
3. It never gets that cold, even in Minnesota.. What's a PDE?. When I used to teach, I would often hear about the 'unteachable' students (these being adults in most cases).

I always stood by the saying that everybody is teachable, but they have to want to learn, horse to water and all that.. Listen, I get what you're saying. And maybe I'm over exaggerating a bit, but hear me out. For example, I've explained in multiple different ways how a function can not be differentiable. What the difference between differentiable and continuous is. Then, no matter what, there is still confusion. Certainly I'm not the best teacher, but sometimes certain things don't click with people. What I will say is that in your example, there's a very obvious physical restriction (conservation of energy) that people can grasp easier.

But, when I was tutoring physics, I still had students who would be off by MANY orders of magnitude and not understand they were wrong. Even after explaining why it can't make sense, they'd come back with a similar problem and a similarly incorrect answer and wonder if they were correct. That's where I'd have to remind them *yet again* that it's not possible for a baseball to go 7.8*10^9 m/s.

It could be a difference in our universities or classes/levels we're teaching.i find students in low level calc courses have issues conceptualizing certain things regardless of approach. Physics was a bit easier because there is real life analogy for every problem in an immediate way.. At my university masters course we had a very well established professor make public Facebook posts quoting and ridiculing students' comments in class when they would respectfully ask justified questions about the material. He even made a public post ridiculing a student who went to him in private for help with work and cried when he told him to drop out, and somehow made the post about how people should feel bad for him (the professor, not the student).


What's worse is that he was the sort of professor who fancied himself as a "cool" person, meaning he would be friends with students on Xbox live and always talk about his past drinking drug usage, especially during his PhD etc (which is apparently something comendable). When you're the sort of professor that plays Xbox live with students and have your Facebook profile on public, you are in a sense implicitly encouraging students to engage with you outside of a typical professional realm.


And guess what? Nothing happened. The whole course saw it and was outraged. He was the sort of jerk Prof who wouldn't give you high marks unless you specifically went to his office hours - wherein you risked public humiliation. Despite my head of school that year bring of the nicest people we'd encountered, apparently senior professors can get away with a whole lot of bullshit just because they publish alot and have an emotionally stunted childish attitude. Fuck that .. [deleted]. I don’t know about Stacey’s homework, but Stacey’s Mom has got it going on. Yeah, but, karma.... Where did this notion come from, I wonder, that educators are meant to protect students? The proper role of the educator is to educate - not to protect. That's what mom and dad were for, before university. I do not need the protection of my professors. I need their sincere and honest perspective on their subject of expertise and their sincere and honest appraisal of my progress. This post is not 'ridicule'. Ridicule is too strong, and I think requires something akin to malice in intent. This post is a lighthearted and funny jab, at worst. 

I hate my professors pussyfooting around being scared to offend anyone and treating us like children. I'm an adult studying physics. When I say something stupid, it's not anyone's responsibility to say "oh that wasn't stupid, there there". Some of my best learning moments have been from saying wrong things that were clearly wrong and then feeling embarrassed about it. Shame and embarrassment are great teachers and its a loss to everyone that we need to feel so sheltered as to not be able to make use of them, or to take a joke. And if this student ever sees this post, good! He'll never forget the lesson. And if the student is a serious one, he'll be grateful for that. Not only a lesson in what he did wrong on the assignment but it can also be a lesson in how to, gracefully, take a joke. 

. Im glad Im not the only one who saw it that way. Its much easier to write something like this when you know all the information by heart.

I dont know if Id say the INTENT was ridicule, though. The “impossible” was kind of unnecessary, but the rest felt like an attempted nudge in the right direction. I mean the first law of thermodynamics certainly does cover that.

Teachers certainly dont have it easy and I can definitely see someone writing something like this after a frustrating period of grading without deliberately trying to be rude.

That said I see where you are coming from. If an undergrad struggles  finds hard to grasp that you can't create energy out of thin air and have something have a 1360% efficiency or is in aware of how percentages work they should really reconsider his choices 

I would normally agree with you, but really, this is "I don't give a fuck" territory.. Presumably they pointed out the mistake on the page we can't see where they made the mistake. Clearly they made an error in the calculation  they didn't gave a fuck to see if it makes common sense . One more story, if you care:

My second class I ever TA'd was a Senior-level lab. I was a master's student and had never taken the class, so I booked 4 hours every week before my lab sections to go through the lab myself. Every circuit, every piece of code, everything, then I'd make a list of questions I figured might come up for students. Then, in each section, I'd take 15 minutes to go over the lab, mention or straight up ask the questions I had, and help everyone through, before the students got started. I'd sometimes get my professor to change labs, if something felt too hard or wasn't backed up in the lecture section he was teaching.

Well, I had this one pair of students, sat near the back, never asked me questions in class or anything. I'd wander over to them and help them out, but was usually answering questions for other people so I didn't always get to them. Anyway, they turn in a few lab reports, low quality, then miss a few labs/reports entirely.

After a couple of zeros pulled their grades into the 50% region, I went to them and pulled them aside. I knew they were seniors, knew they'd be swamped, and I wanted to touch base with them. It turned out, they were overwhelmed and found they needed more time and direct help on labs but were too afraid to ask. I cut a deal with them; make up missed labs/reports, and I will grade them without a penalty. 

I convinced my professor after the fact to allow this (he was a cool guy so it wasn't hard, he just said it was up to me since I was committing a lot of time and energy to this), then began focusing more help on these guys. By the end of the class, they'd pulled their grades up to the B region and were consistently finishing on time. I was happy for them, putting in a lot of work like that, and when I offered extra help, they took it and held up their end of the deal.

I don't know if most TAs would go to this level of effort but I guarantee most are trying their best, just like the students they teach. But in every group you get a few who try to cheat and pass it as their own work, or who fail to invest the effort to master fundamental concepts, and that is frustrating. So sometimes you write out one line "see first law of thermodynamics" and move on. Because you learn who is going to meet you halfway and who is not.. I get it, Physics, or in my case Electrical Engineering, is hard. It's hard in undergrad, hard in master's, hard in PhD. However as a grader you can tell who is putting in effort and who is not. Especially if you've been TA'ing for 6 years, tutoring for a decade, and have even been the primary lecturer. You see trends repeat, archetypes repeat, etc.

If someone is giving a genuine effort, coming to me for help, and still missing challenging points, fine. I'm not talking about those people. I'm talking about students who exhibit no critical thinking skills. I mostly TA for master's/PhD level classes these days, and the problem is present there too. Not in the 90% of students you mention who are trying, but the 10% who write down a probability outside the range of 0 to 1 or put an efficiency greater than 100%. These are very basic fundamental concepts and students don't really have an excuse not to think about that when writing their answers.

> Also the TA who graded this had weeks to do it, probably, and if they got stressed, they could take a break and come back to grading.

Most tests end up being graded within a few days, whereas homeworks have about a week to be graded most of the time. Keep in mind that often times TA'ing is not the main priority for a grad student, and in fact, represents a very small component of their responsibilities. We are usually paid to research, and have multiple admin responsibilities as well. These are not even directly related to our own research, which is not paid for, but done on our own time. 

So in some cases, like mine, 2 of my 22 paid hours last semester covered being a teaching assistant where I had to generate material, make slides, understand the material (I had had the class but when teaching a subject the first time, you are learning it again), manage the class on Canvas, occasionally teach, set up homeworks, do the homeworks myself, grade homeworks quickly, meet with students (I had no office hours as a "grader" but still met with students any time I could), and grade projects. This "2 hours" paid work meant I had about 8-13 hours unpaid work a week, so you can basically assume that I (and many other TAs) are working for free to try to help you out.

All so that a student who has been in your class and had 3 to 4 chances to learn from mistakes and incorporate lectures can tell you a probability value that is greater than the number of molecules in the universe is the right answer. Or that the half-assed garbage they turn in is a correct plot, when there is no title, no code, nothing. I can't tell you how many times I have spent ages going back and forth through someone's work trying to find what they were doing so I can give them SOME partial credit.

> the TA has likely been through this shit before so fuck them for being a dickhead when they should be sympa-fucking-thetic to the student.
 
All this, for 2 hours paid work. Plus 20 hours research/admin. Add on 20 hours for your own research, then couple it all with tutoring people on the side because with a master's in electrical engineering you're still not making enough money to break even. Then a student puts down an unbelievably incompetent answer and calls you a "dickhead" for not understanding how hard it is for them.

. I dunno why people downvoted you though, seems harsh :(. A cursory googling suggests the UK uses both those terms, but either way undergraduates refers to college students. Scandinavian here, we don't have any separation of undergrad and grad school, but we just translate "undergrad" into "bachelor student" and "graduate" into "master student". (Some universities here also have integrated bachelor+master programmes, not sure if that has a direct equivalent in the US/UK systems.). Bachelor's degree. It's the thing between high school and postgrad pretty much . An undergraduate degree is the degree you take before ever graduating from a tertiary education institute, i.e. a bachelor's. A postgraduate degree is one you take after graduating from tertiary education, e.g. Masters or PhD.. I had all values needed to calculate that, I was just too lazy to write it all here. [deleted]. Yes, that's the approach. You'd need either estimates or to have those values given to you. 

The final step would be to check that the answer is reasonable for the equations used. 1/2 mv^2 is fine as long as you stay well under the speed of light. Once you get close to the speed of light you need the relativistic kinetic energy equation. The process is the same using that equation, although the algebra is a bit worse. 

In their case the issue lies not in the equations used but somewhere in handling the math. Using a 2000 kg car and about 45 m/s (~100 mph) gives around 2 MJ of energy. Putting that all on a 1 gram coin (a penny is 2.5 grams) only gives 0.00021c, low enough that the classical mechanics equation for kinetic energy is just fine. . Yea that’s pretty much how you do it, lol. I’m assuming the question gives him the masses of both and the velocity of the car. In a problem you're going to be given both masses and a speed for the car. Then using the KE equation you solve for the KE of the car, and use it to solve for the speed of the coin. Alternatively you can do it by setting the kinetic energy equation for the car equal to the one for the coin, then solve in general terms for the ratio of the speeds (v_coin/v_car). No, I just fucked up my calculations. Got it, thanks!. When I was a student, we also jokingly used "pi bar" in our notes, better known as 1/2.. Got it, thanks!. Got it, thanks!. I never new it was pronounced as ح. I always called it H-bar.. Got it, thanks! /s. Got it, thanks!. Only the entire comment, and it was easier to do what I did than delete most of the thing.. Got it, thanks!. Interesting! Well then maybe we're distantly related through professors/thesis advisors.. You show great promise for administration.. After having to redo a whole lab because of fudged results, I made it a point for each partner to check and confirm with each other. . As a former TA running the lab at my university for engineering physics, you’d have gotten a plus just for making me laugh. . At least I made someone laugh today 🤷🏼‍♂️. Maybe pity marks is misleading, but I think examiners are more likely to look favourably on an answer if the student is *aware* that the answer is obviously wrong, rather than just quoting whatever came out of the calculation. Forgive me, but even though I agree with what you're saying, I have no idea why you're saying it. /u/bassman1805 wrote about a problem and a hillariously wrong result. They also said that the result was theirs, "***I*** got 8\*10\^83"

You are correct, we don't know that it was their result. But we also don't know that they solved the problem, if they ever were at an institution where they'd have the problem assigned, et cetera. So, we can safely assume that the result of the assignment was indeed theirs, and that they were poking fun at themselves at the expense of nobody else.. I go to University in South Africa, we have open computer labs, and computers in the library, as well as free wifi access on campus. We have tutors/lecturers and TAs with mandatory consulting hours where you can go ask questions. In first year we have tutorials scheduled in most courses where you basically sit for an hour plus and ask any questions you want.. Also if all of those fail you can go to the library and find a gosh darn book on the subject and read about it. **George Washington Carver**

George Washington Carver (1860s – January 5, 1943), was an American botanist and inventor. He actively promoted alternative crops to cotton and methods to prevent soil depletion.

While a professor at Tuskegee Insitutute, Carver developed techniques to improve soils depleted by repeated plantings of cotton. He wanted poor farmers to grow alternative crops, such as peanuts and sweet potatoes, as a source of their own food and to improve their quality of life.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. This is the most r/physics "your mamma" joke I've ever seen. I love it.. Same, on a quantum exam I got a probability well under what it should have been and I circled it and said "this is wrong" and then in the few minutes I had at the end I briefly wrote out my reasoning for taking each step I took while solving the problem.. That means you're learning!

The amazing thing about physics is that the more you know, the more you realize how little you know.. The second law of thermodynamics. In a closed system, entropy always increases over time!. Like I said joke answer and joke question. I think the question was which language was used during the development of the IBM computing system in the late 1960? 
. Jokes should, ideally, be recognizable as jokes.. What do you mean by throw indices around? The only time I've seen lots of indices floating about is in mechanics and electrodynamics. But even then it doesn't matter, you just sum over repeated indices. It's not like a physicist is concerned with the actual definitions of (m,n)-tensors. Plus you're always working over an inner product space which really makes the difference on where indices go meaningless.. Lol can't help you there. We were doing like "how many ohms is this resistor" and why is the answer not -60. > Even for units they're not as familiar with, there can be common sense wrong answers. If the only voltage source in a circuit is a 5V power supply, the resistor won't have a voltage drop of 10V.

Unless it's [an AC circuit](https://tenor.com/view/smart-thinking-thoughts-think-ponder-gif-7713620)! . How about the charge or mass of an electron inside a magnetic field? Some topics are just not common enough to make sense to the student, which can lead to results like this. Please enjoy your magnificent cake day! :D. [Partial differential equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_differential_equation?wprov=sfla1). Some of them are impossible to solve analytically. . Username checks out. Partial differential equations.. Partial differential equation . Partial Differential Equation.. Agreed.  Some students make progress at different rates.  The only students that I really have a hard time are the sarcastic / dismissive students and the so quiet that I can't get anything out of them. The offices that you are supposed to go to in those situations are Ombudspersons or Deans of colleges, for future reference.. I assumed this was from a grad student.. Lol no it's fine . Oh ok cool.. We use undergraduate the same way you do, but what you call graduate students we call postgraduate students. Ya know, because they graduated undergrad. . "This is any easy problem, I'll save time by doing some of the easy stuff in my head" -my famous last words on an exam. 55.0 mph ~ 89.0 km/h

_____

^(I'm a bot. Downvote to 0 to delete this comment.) ^[Info](https://www.reddit.com/user/bot_metric). Assuming you have mass of coin and car and speed of car, I'd start with Vcoin^2 = Mcar/Mcoin * Vcar^2 and see what that gets you. If the Vcoin is a substantial % of C (say, 10% or more) then you'd have to switch to relativistic equations. Given the fact that it came at 2C with what I assume where fairly trivial classical mechanics equations, I'd say using the relativistic version was probably warrented.. Thanks for doing the maths :). I see. So it's just applying high school physics, and the issue was probably that OP squared the final answer instead of square rooting it, hence the humongous number. . I prefer to hold onto my fantasy of a supersonic battleship, though I do see how your explanation also makes sense.. Trekki, why are you in Reddit? I thought the internet was for porn. pi-bar was definitely a thing we used in my undergrad days. Great way of confusing freshmen.... That's brilliant. I'm definitely stealing this one.. People only pronounce it that way in a linguistic context (besides the Maltese I guess). Otherwise H-bar is what people say.. Btw it's h-bar. Just if you didn't already know.. A link to this post would be nice.

Also, I’ll give you a half thank you, because obviously you are still hell bent on proving me wrong. However, by convention of debate, I must also prove you wrong.

The OP says undergraduates’ mistakes. Where in the post title or post explanation does it say this was their homework? Heck even a small tag that says something like MyWork would be nice.

Finally, I thought this subreddit was about sharing experiences with physics, posting articles, and giving fun stories about colleagues. What I did not expect is such rude behavior from this subreddit community. Voting my post down by 51... I mean wow. Did I honestly deserve that for asking questions about the posts intention without receiving any proper context...

Physics is about making a hypothesis, gathering evidence to hopefully support the hypothesis, and finally refining your hypothesis. It is not about poking fun at mistakes, because honestly it is mostly hurtful, and I don’t know many physicists who like to showcase their blatantly wrong mistakes.

. Help barely exists for some classes in major US universities. For one or two reasons, the first being that it sometimes seems like help is a closely guarded secret... and second when you get help it could sometimes be misinterpreted as cheating for some professors. I recall a professor that failed half of his class, all because a TA taught them how to properly do a doubly nested for loop.... 

Can you possibly empathize with me before attacking me?. America is being brainwashed at the moment. 

People are actively being encouraged to hate reading, not listen to facts, and act irrationally aggressive.

I wish this wasn’t the case, but it is true.

Yes, our country has a shady past. Yes, our country is not yet ready to move on from this past. 

But, the fact of the matter is that you should not blindly defend a person’s post before you can prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that you have the right answers, and that you are not basing your positions on false assumptions...

Also, thank you for empathizing with me. I know it is not easy via Reddit, so I appreciate this greatly.

I hope all is well in South Africa! I pray your water crisis is short lived.. I am honoured!. Technically it increases or stays the same over time.. Do you have any clue if any one failed that one? Even without A it (and just b c d) it would have been easy haha. It was seldom made clear in many of my modules what the difference between an upper and a lower index was even in principle. In minkowski space they’re the same up to a minus sign in some components, but there was little to no instruction given as to why they were even a thing. It was just a case of making sure you contract a lower index with an upper index so that you had something Lorentz invariant. Often times lecturers would refer to covariant and contravariant components/vectors/tensors without going any further than “if there’s an index upstairs, stick in a minus sign in front of these components”. They’d introduce the metric tensor without giving any indication of what it does or why it does it, other than “it moves indices around”. I found that GR courses made that whole process much more intuitive and less like just following some weird rules I was instructed to use, even if I was only ever working with Minkowski space.. "actual" definitions? The physicist's walks like a tensor is tensor definition is quite natural when working with representation theory - in the spinor section in the back of wald he work with the multiliner map def and some of the phrasing comes across as slight less clean than more physicy treatments.. An undergrad physicist should have a feel for those numbers relatively quickly in their degree, if not already from school. They should certainly know that, say, 1 Coulomb or 50 Tons are clearly ridiculous answers! Even if they don't know - either for this or other questions - it's usually easy enough to find out the expected answer, the range of expected answers, or at least those answers that just make no sense (negative mass, efficiency > 100%, etc.).. How does one prove a PDE has no analytical solution?. So I learned that in calculus 3. Is PDE vital to understand thermo?. Thanks for the advice. We don't have a designated Ombudsperson where I went to uni. The general first call protocol was to go to the prof, then the school head. 


As somebody who had to be in this guy's classes for the whole year and who was already dealing with exceptional home life issues, I didn't want to put my grades even more at risk over by going to the head of the whole college with a formal complaint against somebody that was clearly mentally unstable. It sucks, but at least my his Facebook finally went private at the end of the the course year so future classes won't have to deal with that as publicly.. good bot. [deleted]. That would make sense. You get a speed for the car of about 1mph, so about the right order of magnitude, maybe 1 off.. I don't want to be around when they try to turn that thing.. . There's also porn in Reddit. He's just "in between".. Yeah, I mean, the kinetic energy becomes so much clearer when you write it as

E =  ̶πmv^2. Oh is that what ħ is called?. I am not talking about OP though. I am talking about the comment you responded to, aka [this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8kwxg1/i_am_always_impressed_at_undergraduates_ability/dzbd5it/)

I understand the misunderstanding and your frustration now, but you do have to agree that I'm not exactly at fault here. It is quite obvious that I was talking about /u/bassman1805's comment since that's what you originally responded to, not OP's post.. I really didn't mean to attack you, just that our university is really not that highly ranked afaik (it's the University of Pretoria), but every lecturer I've had has really tried to make sure everyone knows about the help available, not a lot of students choose to use it, but it's always there. I was sort of trying to point out that you always have options, even if it doesn't feel like it. . Yeah but let’s be honest, any work done by or on a closed system is gonna result in an increase in entropy. Reversible processes are RARE!. I don’t think it counted as an actual point and more of a reason to fuck with some people taking a final we spent the entire semester dreading . There's not much of a reason for a physicist to need to understand dual vector spaces and covariance/contravariance at a first GR course level, I imagine. So for the time being, you just push what you need around to do the calculations that you learn physics from.

Just like when you're learning cross products. You're not learning about the exterior algebra and Hodge star. Why? Because all that matters is that multiplying components of vectors in this way gives you the vector perpendicular to the two you had before with a magnitude proportional to the sin of the angle between them.

Sure, you shouldn't take what's going on under the hood for granted. But developing the mathematical rigor takes time and the suitable place for that isn't in a GR course. It's more I a differential topology/geometry course.

Just my two cents.. Right. For example, it doesn't matter to a physicist that a tensor satisfies a certain universal property. It seems like you're agreeing with me also. I think physicists tend to use these mathematical objects in the way that makes the most *physical* sense. This can be really intuitive and agreeable whereas some of the technical details on the math side can be off putting.. Most of the times I was asked to give answers in terms of constants, so it wouldn’t be surprising that you cant remember the approximate value of some constants.

Although 1C would be quite large, it would not be impossible to achieve. 50 tons is clearly not right, but if  it is the difference between 10^-30 and 10^-20 you have no way of knowing what is reasonable.. Well, probably ask a mathematician. 

I think usually you just try all possible tricks and if nothing works you try it numerically instead.. Not vital. I don't know what calc 3 is, but as long as you know the calculus of functions of multiple variables, so how to manipulate partial derivatives properly and integrate over vector variables then all of stat mech/thermo should be accessible. . I guess that's possible as well, though it seemed an easy enough equation... I wouldn't however discount silly numbers on car velocity for the express purpose of making students use relativistic mechanics.. Just got back from /r/nsfw, so what's h bar again?. Fair point. Welp... I feel like a jerk. I apparently pressed the wrong reply button. I had not realized I commented on a comment.

I concede my original point based on the context I received.

And, thank you for agreeing with my point despite the improper context received on your end.

I think my president is having more influence on my emotions than I realize... this is no excuse.

This will be one of the most memorable comment threads on Reddit for me, and that is saying something lol.

Happy trails from America!. That’s an interesting point of view to take. I still haven’t covered the cross product at a level that you describe and I’ve just completed my MSci, but my introductory GR course was literally 6-7 weeks of Diff Geo followed by 5-6 weeks of basic EFE, Schwarzchild solutions, and Weak Gravity/Gravitational Waves.

I met tensors for the first time in a second year maths course which covered them superficially like you mention - in fact we only worked in Euclidean space and did some elementary fluids, so there was no need to even differentiate between covariance and contravariance. Perhaps that’s why my perspective is somewhat different when it comes to GR. I can’t imagine making any sense of GR without those ideas and just pushing indices around.. Oh I'm aware that certain PDEs like the Schrödinger equation for >2 particles are unsolvable analytically, just curious how to prove that.. Using the power of theorems! 

Source: am mathematician in training :P. This may help you:

https://mathoverflow.net/a/68681/55948

Note that its not about non-existence of an analytic solution (I'm not sure what physicists mean when they say this, it certainly isn't what mathematicians mean, because otherwise _almost every_ differential equation you can write down from your head does not admit analytic solutions), but about the non-existence of _any_ solution. I created a 2D physics simulator for the browser, for fun, where the user can create interactions between objects from Physics 101 like point masses, springs and inclines, with some graphing functionality. nan. I'm a university student and I created this mostly for fun, and also because I didn't find anything like it already out there. It's made completely in JavaScript, and uses a Euler integrator to solve the motion of the objects. You can check the repo for more details and usage instructions: [https://github.com/dokasov/physics-lab](https://github.com/dokasov/physics-lab)

I think it could be useful to a teacher to show little simulations in class. And also just for using it for fun or for creating stuff. So I'm just wondering, as a teacher or a student, would you use this? Or what would it take for you to use this? Any feedback is appreciated.

You can access it here (not mobile for now): [physicslab.herokuapp.com](https://physicslab.herokuapp.com). This shall be wonderful for some engineering problems! Thank you for creating this!. https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/filter has a lot of interesting stuff as well.. I was browsing the other day to find something exactly like this but like yourself, I couldn’t find anything. So, an immense thank you from my side for making it!. This is great! With a few additions, I would definitely use this when I teach intro mechanics. What I would suggest is the following:

* Implement a way to click-and-drag objects to move them (perhaps when the sim is paused).
* Make the incline have adjustable (maybe click-and-drag the corner to change the size?)
* Add in a possibility for friction on the floor and inclines

With just those three things, it would be super useful! On top of that, things I would like but not need include:

* Pulleys, pivots.
* Rope that transmits tension. This looks like a much simpler and much more user-friendly version of Algodoo. Props to you! Are you thinking of adding any features such as motors or pivots?. could you make this symbol ∞ create infinity?. It seems like the solver might have some inaccuracies.

If you put three masses with a spring between every two masses (a triangle basically), the CM will drift slowly, sometimes not so slowly too.

That said, it's a very neat simulator! Kudos!. Now this... this is awesome for some reason. Thank you so much!. So how do you assign the horizontal spring coefficient on the mass-suspended-between-two-springs system? Just the same as the vertical? Or fractional?. Well done!. Great job. Awesome, I created something similar when I was in school. Except it was circular particles and you could give them mass, charge and a velocity.. This scared me, just did simple harmonic motion in school and boi was it confuzling. This looks awesome. Good job. I used a software called Working Model in kinematics and machine dynamics during undergrad. Fun stuff. jesus, I play Minecraft and make Minecraft datapacks and gamemodes for fun... boy do I feel small.... This looks so cool. This is awesome
Thank You. Nice!. r/polybridge would love this honestly, you should post there. Hey I've been trying to write something similar.

Can I ask what libraries you used to draw objects to the screen?

I like how this has graphs.. Check out Numerical Physics on the iOS app store.. The best part about Physics is being able to do party tricks with your knowledge of leverage and balance 😎. You are a true hero sir!. Neat. I'm a college physics instructor, and this appears to be similar to Interactive Physics which I use with my students to theoretically model labs they are about to physically partake in.. I'm currently applying for computer science after finishing high school and this looks really cool! Thank you for sharing it with us, I'm definitely up to make some cool stuff with java script as well. Looks good. The program Working Model is similar but it's functionality is crap.. You can have a lot of fun with this, but I can't change settings of objects. Is this something you look forward to fix?. Good job man, this is really cool. But graph which is bumping arround isn't quite comfortable.. I'd love to learn to make such projects. Dude make it an app , and develop it to include other things too . I always wanted to make something like this but I am not that good at programming . Thanks for your effort.. i think the graph would be less nauseating if you just scaled it to keep all data points from the last X seconds shown instead of keeping it centered on the last data point. I'd love to see it tweaked for coyote physics.. Nice. So you recreated phun?. Great job! How would one go about doing this for waves?. Great simulator. I loved it but I would suggest two things.

1) be able to click and drag things like the inclined plane.
2) options to add strings, pulleys and pivots. I like to think of those squares as conscience beings. Have you got collision between rigid bodies?

This would even be a good graduate demo for games job. I've been in the industry for 20 years.. Great job. It has visual appeal and is quite versatile. I would have three suggestions.

1) Damped oscillators are a pretty important topic in early physics courses - damped springs would be cool!

2) Euler integrators are great for prototyping but lead to artifacts like those QuantumCakeIsALie mentioned. An Runge Kutta 4 integrator might significantly improve those, depending on your time step size.

3) I remember in my introductory courses, saving data from simple simulations to compare with the model was a core part of the lessons. I imagine many educators would love it if you added a data saving feature.. My teacher used it to explain bouncing strings ( don’t know translation to "resorte") Thank you!. The closest thing to this that I'm aware of is glowscript, but that requires some basic programming on the user's part.. Amazing. This should be useful for teachers and students. Wish I would have had this in my studies.. Lol, I had this exact idea for a project I want to work on over the summer. Well done!. Working Model is the physics simulation tool we used in school this kinda reminded me of it. This is awesome. I’m no longer in academics, but one suggestion I would offer is to see if you could implement a better integrator. Euler breaks down pretty quickly. Maybe a Runge-Kutte method?

Also just curious, is friction implemented?. No problem! Would you mind giving more details about why this could be useful to you?. I'd seen these ones, they are pretty good. What I wanted to do is something a lot more interactive that isn't limited in a single experiment.. Check out algodoo. It looks like a game kinda but has quite powerful physics tools. I will have all of this in mind, thank you!. I think it would be useful to change the air viscosity, too.. Didn't know Algodoo, thanks. I'm really just seeing what people think of it, and what I could add to make it actually useful. Motors and pivots is a good idea!. Thank you for pointing that out, I'll keep it in mind. You can change the coefficient of a spring by placing it on the world, selecting from the list of objects in the world and then editing its K property on the table at the top right. It's not horizontal or vertical, it points the direction the spring is pointing at.. Very nice suggestions, other people have criticized the Euler integrator as well. Thank you!. I think the word you're looking for is "Springs". It's "ressort* in French, I presume *resorte* is the Spanish or Italian word.. Modelling basic ideas and concepts which I'm trying to apply to situations with rough semi-exact values.. in the future, would you also add pulleys and strings?. What you put together is awesome :). For a basic mechanics simulator? I don't know if air viscosity is really super relevant. Unless you're being facetious?. I don't know if this is the actual problem, but it might be related to using Euler integration. You might want to look into implementing a higher-order Runge-Kutta integration to see if that helps.. Ahh good point. So its a linear spring that acts in the direction of the mass.  Awesome simulation dawg 🤙🏻🤙🏼🤙🏽🤙🏾🤙🏿. It should be spanish, in italian we use a completely different word from the other romance language versions "molla". I don't know the etimology but it seems pretty similar to "molle" wich stands for soft and for springs. Km8. The projectile motion simulator from PHET has an adjustable drag coefficient.

https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulation/projectile-motion

It’s not that complicated.. "Muelle" is also a word for spring in Spanish. I don't know why we get downvoted, we were both just trying to be helpful.

I checked and resorte is indeed a Spanish word for spring/molla/ressort.

In French, *molle* is the feminine form of soft, as in a cushion.. I'm not saying it's complicated, I just don't teach a whole lot about drag in an intro mechanics course is all. So it's not something I would need. That said, it couldn't hurt.. It’s not much but I gave you all a vote for adding info. You weren’t trying to be jerks.. I don’t usually teach a lot about it either, but I do like to go into drag force and terminal velocity a bit.. Thank you all 

_Spring_ I designed my Ph.D. thesis cover (each copy unique!) with using my adaptive sampling Python package, neural networks, and quantum physics! [OC]. nan. Hi all,

I have just finished my PhD in theoretical quantum physics.

For the design of the cover of my thesis I used data resulting from a simulation of a quantum device run with [Adaptive](https://github.com/python-adaptive/adaptive), the software I wrote during my Ph.D. to adaptively sample functions in parallel and my proudest work. Using a neural network I selected the data sets I wanted to use. You can read more in the [blog post](https://quantumtinkerer.tudelft.nl/blog/thesis-cover/) I wrote about it or see the GitHub repos below where I share the code to create these covers!

GitHub repos:
- ⭐️ [Python Adaptive sampling package: Adaptive](https://github.com/python-adaptive/adaptive)
- ⭐️ [Cover design code on GitHub](https://github.com/basnijholt/thesis-cover)
- ⭐️ [Ph.D. thesis source code on GitHub](https://github.com/basnijholt/thesis)

Other resources:
- ℹ️ [Blog post: How I designed the cover of my Ph.D. thesis](https://quantumtinkerer.tudelft.nl/blog/thesis-cover/)
- ℹ️ [thesis.pdf](http://files.nijho.lt/thesis.pdf): **Towards realistic numerical simulations of Majorana devices by Bas Nijholt**

If people are interested, you can create the images in high-res without text for wallpaper use with [this widget](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/basnijholt/thesis-cover/master?filepath=generate-backgrounds.ipynb).. These are beautiful and many somewhat...vulvic.. They are beautiful! And congratulations on the PhD!. Just wanna say I really appreciate the thought that went into this. One thing that I loathe about going to poster sessions is the mind numbing ugliness of most posters that make the brilliant work really hard to appreciate. I think aesthetics and good presentation definitely has a long way to go in the sciences. And THIS is AWESOME! I'd totally read this cover to cover even though it isn't my field.. Very neat. Not a fucking clue what any of this means, but still, very neat.. Dude this amazing, I'm in love with all the colours and geometry and congrats on the PhD, I'm struggling to get through year 12 physics. Congrats on the thesis, really cool. And the cover art looks really fun to design and implement. may I ask you what software you use to create figures 1.3, 1.4, 6.1 and 7.4 in your thesis?. Your brain on on Majorana. [removed]. Gefeliciteerd! A rather _bourgeois_ question, if I may: How did printing this go? Did you send a hundred separate orders to the print shop?. I came from a very small group, working on experimental superconducting nanowires and topological insulators. I’m doing my PhD in quantum optomechanics now. But really wish I had this back then. Thanks for sharing. Finite elements or something?. What are you going to do with all those copies? Ok just thinking one for the lab, one for mom, one for dad and one for me.. Happy cake day. These are brilliant! Great figures for a thesis, congratulations! Hello from 2nd year CME student looking for materials to make TI/Majorana devices!. I like marijuana devices too. Trippy pix brah.. This totally deserves to be on the r/nextfuckinglevel Congratulations!. Very beautiful!

I am getting to where I have to start thinking of my phd cover design too.. That's some next level thing right there man. Nice work!. Excellent work! Going to have a look at the package later and see if I can play around with it. Cool project and massive work behind an smoth good looking video. Congratz

Ahh and happy cake day!. Congratulations and all the best for the defense. These covers look amazing.. awesome. happy cake day!. Wow! Super nice. Designing a cover wasn’t required at our university and I suspect it would be frowned upon. I’m mildly jealous.. Voor Daniël

Fuck yeah!. Happy cake day!. Happy Cake Day!!!. I did not understand most of what u said but I hope u got your PH.D. and if so congratulations. What a great idea. 

Even if the professors pooh-pooh it: "It has nothing to do with the thesis!!", they still admire the effort.. Just out of interest how old are you. I’m 18 and about to go to university in England to do a masters in Theoretical Physics. But after I finish I eventually would love to do a Ph.D. too, I’m curious as to what age one typically does their Ph.D. and would love to know when you did yours. Thanks. Congratulations! This is brilliant. Love how the word “for” is Dutch for some, german for some and Maria had a different word for “for” and even the Scandinavian O containing name.. Fuck I hate my thesis much more now... Anyway congrats on the PhD!. That is a seriously beautiful work. Is there any connection between your thesis theme with the cover?. this is too big brain for my brain. This is beautiful! Can someone explain to me what a Majorana Device is? I can't find any explanation online and I've never heard of this (I have some undergraduate-level background in physics).. I like the pretty colors. (A guy who doesn't know sht about physics). One word. Damn. He pursued quantum physics and done more woke in IT then me🤩. First of all , congratulations on accomplishing this great feat! I have one question , do you have Greek classmates , because of the name Kostas that I saw.. Ah, Dutch thesis books. 2+ for mine.

Congrats!!. While it looks cool, no question asked, it's not helpful from a branding standpoint. People search for books by its cover - it doesn't help if every copy looks different.. Ah, the things PhD students will do to avoid writing the text.... Wow very cool man! Wish I could do theoretical quantum physics.. That is a very cool program.  What were you using this to study?  Those look like band structures or interference patterns.. Hey mate, this is super awesome work, I remember being amazed at it when I saw the first simulation ages ago. I've been digging through the readthedocs and then your thesis itself, but is there a specific location where you cover the algorithm behind the different learners?. What Latex template did you use for the thesis ? Also yes I'd love to see some high-res versions too. Congrats on the PhD! Also happy cake day. That's awesome! I would definitely print these out and put them on my wall!. This is beautiful.. Thx a lot for github. I am positive this will be the cover of one of my textbooks when I go back for grad school.. So cool, and happy cake day!. The term is yonic :p. r/mildlyvagina. I wanna commend your attitude. I've gotten through that sort of thing and more, but looking at this just makes me feel unaccomplished. It's a poor attitude. Thanks!

- 1.3: Matplotlib
- 1.4: Inkscape
- 6.1: Inkscape
- 7.1: Matplotlib (code is [here](https://github.com/python-adaptive/paper/blob/master/figures.ipynb).  The term is vulvic :p

(just a little joke for those reading down the thread). I just supplied a pdf with 100 covers, the printing company [(proefschriftenprinten.nl)](https://proefschriftenprinten.nl/?lang=en) told me it would be almost as much work as just printing with one cover.. Thanks, and good luck!. Thanks! I will also post it there :). Still is about chapter four though ;). I'm 29 now and just finished "school". Baffles me too sometimes, haha. 

Good luck on that masters!. The 'typical' age will vary from place to place and circumstances to circumstances, for instance in my country, Brazil, you would start as an undergrad at 17/18, after a 4 year bachelor's degree you would then go on to a 2 year master's program and following that start your doctorate (4 years). You can also skip the master's and go straight to a doctorate (5 years) but it's not common (at least in ky experience).

I had a slight different journey then the typical one, i finished my bachelor's in physics with 24, spent a year on a master's program in particle physics but without a grant. I managed to get a grant in a different university, but had to change areas. Now I'm 30, on the second year of my doctorate studying turbulence in BECs.

A guy that went to the same undergrad program that i did was in his early sixties, retired judge, and went on to earn a bachelor's in applied maths and is now enrolled in a doctorate program.

Good luck in your master's, research and coursework together can be a tough needle to thread but in the ebd is pretty rewarding.. Well spotted! It's Dutch, Swedish, German, and English.. Yes, definitely! It's all from simulation data of Ch. 4 of my thesis. You can read more here https://quantumtinkerer.tudelft.nl/blog/thesis-cover/. It’s a dissertation, not a book. People search for these by name, topic, or author. Most dissertations don’t get fancy printing or binding.. "It's the one with the weird orange flames and triangles on the cover".. I left the entire sciences field for grad school so I could only work on the pretty figure pictures.

The amount of writing I dodged with an MFA would make you vomit.

Edit: i still appreciate and love everything you guys do and hope you get duly paid for it. My colleague started making cheese a lot once he was supposed to start writing. My office was never cleaner than during my writing period.. Theoretically you can. That's related, this is the conductance through a nanowire, I used a quantum transport package called [Kwant](http://kwant-project.org/). See [this](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.01940.pdf) paper for more details on the specific simulation.. Thanks!

We are writing a paper about the algorithms [which is on GitHub](https://github.com/python-adaptive/paper/) and the [pdf is here](https://gitlab.kwant-project.org/qt/adaptive-paper/builds/artifacts/master/file/paper.pdf?job=make).. I modified it from the TU Delft template. If you want you can just fork https://github.com/basnijholt/thesis. Check out this widget https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/basnijholt/thesis-cover/master?filepath=generate-backgrounds.ipynb

With that, you can create the images in arbitrary resolution and without the text.. Actually both, but most people don’t go yo.. 
I see you've posted a GitHub link to a Jupyter Notebook! GitHub doesn't 
render large Jupyter Notebooks, so just in case, here is an 
[nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/) link to the notebook:

https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/url/github.com/python-adaptive/paper/blob/master/figures.ipynb

Want to run the code yourself? Here is a [binder](https://mybinder.org/) 
link to start your own Jupyter server and try it out!

https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/python-adaptive/paper/master?filepath=figures.ipynb



------

^(I am a bot.) 
[^(Feedback)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jd_paton) ^(|) 
[^(GitHub)](https://github.com/JohnPaton/nbviewerbot) ^(|) 
[^(Author)](https://johnpaton.net/). Really cool usage of matplotlib!. Actually both, but most people don’t go vu.. Is it common to need that many copies these days?  My wife just needed a copy for each member of her committee, one for Rackham, and one for University Microfilms.. You mean all 100 covers were superimposed until printing, when the wave function collapsed, making each one unique?. Woah, I wonder if people will try to collect them all in the future. Thanks so much. Maybe one day you’ll see my cover on this page too :)) (doubtful but we can hope). What language is till Maria? (It i see it correctly). literally no. That was my first thought when I saw the post! That's really cool and I'm saving this to show off around the lab. 

I work in electro mechanics but one of my buddies does some work on majorana systems in liquid helium 3, he will get a kick out of this.. Awesome, thanks a ton! Is there a reason why you're using docker to build the paper instead of something like overleaf?. good bot. It is common in the Netherlands (where they also pay for it.). Don't know in The Netherlands, but in the UK it's extremely uncommon.. Swedish 🇸🇪. /r/woosh. It's easier to share publicly and to keep track who makes the changes this way.. In an office at my university there were two boxes of a PhD thesis. No one was reading them. The strange part was that the thesis was accompanied by a little book about the journey the person went through obtaining their PhD. This book was not afraid to use emojis and parts were written in Russian. Very strange... Came with a bookmark too. 

Uhm I guess I wanted to say yeah printing is pretty common in the Netherlands.. mhh reddit. what do you do for work now (that you finished the PhD)? academia or industry?. I’m working with Microsoft now, in the quantum computing lab, so kind of a mix between both. I got to attend a lecture this weekend by Dame Jocelyn Bell Burnell! She discovered the first pulsars, but famously did not get the Nobel Prize in Physics for her work. What an inspiring scientist!. nan. Her lecture: https://youtu.be/tcw6Gv4KHKY

She was legit one of the best public scientist speakers I have seen and did a wonderful job bringing together both the science and the human story of doing science. Well worth it if you have time!. As a note, she seems to have commented on the Nobel Prize controversy thing: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jocelyn\_Bell\_Burnell#Nobel\_Prize\_controversy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jocelyn_Bell_Burnell#Nobel_Prize_controversy)  


As another note, Perelman would probably just nod and be like "And ***THIS*** is why I'm not doing math anymore, ya jerks!" :P  
(Mathematician here, so I immediately think of Perelman.). Can we just cut the Nobel prize crap in every post on Physics (and more broadly science)? Nobel Prize is mostly just politics and used to satisfy the ego and the need for validation of a few men and women. It was never any measure of a scientist's contribution and it never will be. The true measure of a scientist is the longevity and relevance of their work even long after they are dead.. She visited my school in Mexico, she's such an interesting and likable person.. If anyone in the Netherlands wants to see her, she'll be speaking at the FMF symposium in Gronignen on Thursday the 21st of November. Check more at www.fmfsymposium.nl. Who won instead?. Ughhhh so exciting as an aspiring women astrophysicists since most the big names in astrophysics/astronomy are men!!!. I wrote several small biographical papers during my beginning level astronomy classes a few years ago, I was completely amazed at how much her and so many others got accomplished without the technology we have today. Her and Annie Cannon were two of my favorites by far.. She just came to a conference that my university held called the Conference for Undergraduate Women in Astronomy. The whole conference was super cool and Dr. Bell was amazing everyone had such a great time it was so nice to see.. YES!!! I got to hear her a few years ago and my god her story is insane. I reference her a lot when talking to other PhDs about how rough analysis was until fairly recently. Plus the way her adviser did her.. what a complete sack of garbage. Glad to see she finally got some well deserved recognition. 

>>Jocelyn Bell Burnell, who discovered pulsars in 1967, will receive a $3 million Special Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics.Sep 6, 2018. You are my favorite redditor! Thanks for sharing!. Absolutely robbed.. Whose are the kind of people who we should look up to not over paid sports stars and entertainers. Hey Yvette! 🚀. She is one of the greats that help humanity progress in knowledge. Love it. Awesome you got to meet her.. I was there too as a senior from avon high. It was amazing.. What did she lose to?. I saw her lecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at the end of October. It was a great lecture, and honestly, what I took away from it is that very little has changed about being a grad student in the last fifty or so years.. Is she the one on the left or on the right?. Ok. Hello fellow Husky. Yet Obama got a Nobel prize ... I don't care for or against someone when a politician gets a Nobel prize and many women are still over locked in the process it is just sad their are plenty of story where a scientist has done great work the rest would most likely award and want to remember or have their kids taught but yet many end up over looked and committing suicide... the Nobel prize is not for science or achievement anymore it is just another good old boys  lub crap. [removed]. Hey I was also there! We've actually spoke a few years back about NANOGrav when I was a freshman, I would have loved to actually meet you. Believe it or not you're a bit of a celebrity yourself.. I was there as well! She was absolutely wonderful, I’m very glad to have had the opportunity to hear her lecture :). She spoke at my university commencement.. Thanks for sharing!. To steal a comment I wrote elsewhere, I heard it well said by a colleague once that everyone agrees Jocelyn should have won the Nobel Prize, except Jocelyn herself. (I’m a radio astronomer btw.) She’s always said that she doesn’t think she deserved it and was just happy that it was the first one awarded to an astronomer. Frankly this just proves she is a class act IMO. 

Listening to her talk there was 0% chance she wouldn’t have gotten it today for all the work she did because she did the majority of it. But she was also talking about how when she discovered pulsars journalists would ask her adviser the astrophysical questions and then turn to her for the “human interest” part like asking how many boyfriends she had, and would she undo a few buttons of her blouse for the photograph. Then she got married at the end of her PhD and it was socially impossible for a married woman to have a career, so she didn’t until 20 years later post divorce. Is it any surprise in that context she *didn’t* get it?. > Thirdly, I believe it would demean Nobel Prizes if they were awarded to research students, except in very exceptional cases, and I do not believe this is one of them. 

As a PhD student I had to convince my professor to be allowed to do the project that led to the greatest success in my research group, and I led every aspect of the work.  I'd be pretty pissed if my professor got awards for my work and I didn't.. What a respectable comment. Most fields of science don’t have a Nobel Prize or anything equivalent. I’m in climate science, and it’s not an issue for us. Occasionally, you’ll meet someone who was part of the panel that received the 2007 Peace Prize, but that’s a little different. We certainly don’t have many people arguing about who is the best at science or whatever.

Physics is an incredibly beautiful field in itself. It shouldn’t be a competition to be the best. I’ll never understand how it attracts so much discussion in that regard. It’s like going to an art museum and ranking all the paintings so you can identify the best art.. It still is the biggest honour though...

I feel that everyone who got the Physics Nobel so far produced an impressive body of work which does deserve recognition,. There's also more than one occasion where women kind of got it stolen from them.. Kind of sad that Nobel wanted the prizes to change his legacy to a more positive one.. https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/1974/summary/. She then donated all of it to scholarships!. Hi!  How's it going?. Pulsars were discovered 1967 :-). Haha I actually drove down from Cambridge, MA as our institute also received the invite. Well worth it! :). Obama's Nobel Prize is the Peace Nobel, which is done by another comitee.
The non scientific Nobels are a bunch of bullshit, anyway.. [removed]. [removed]. Aww, that’s a shame. Invite me back for a talk sometime; I know the way and am an hour and a half away in Cambridge! :). Weeeeell shit...

At least we've made progress? ...ish? ... (I'm just wishing the world we're creating isn't this bad.)

Edit: Out of curiosity, have you made any posts about your experience as a woman in the astrophysics world? Is it any better? (Gonna go through your post history now just to see.). No, which by the way is a terrible thing.. Her and Emmy Noether, geniuses in their own right.. So what? She didn't get a Nobel Prize. Let's focus on actual science and forget about feeling the need to be publicly acknowledged with a prize. This is science, not acting.. It’s going great! It’s hard to believe the launch was only a week ago. As she was uncredited with the discovery for some time, what other discoveries did she make that we don't know about? FTL travel perhaps? That would explain the difference in aging.
Or
Maybe she's born with it, mabye it's Maybelline. Yeah they all seem that way😢
Like oh here is an award for science or peace or whatever and for a while it works pretty good but then as soo. As an award becomes more about prestige than anything else then you find the awards mean less and less. [removed]. [removed]. If that's Mass, I'll be there for a class in January. Any tips for surviving the cold (if you've done it before)? And any must hit spots for an aging math and physics geek?
Edit to add: or ignore me because I'm just a random question on the internet. Thanks for the time either way. Hope it's treating you well.. Well better in the sense that Jocelyn mentioned that she got married between submission and her defense and couldn’t really continue her career. I also coincidentally did the same thing a few months ago, and no one thought I couldn’t start a postdoc because of it for sure. 

I have been harassed, and my reporting one such case in undergrad ended up helping that guy being ousted from academia. Some of those guys however are still in power. I was also failing a class in my Physics MSc taught by a man who kept complaining in faculty meetings that grades had been going down in his classes since more women started taking them... but then I passed my qualifying exam, so fuck that guy. 

I did also have to transfer universities in my PhD because my relationship with my first supervisor became incredibly toxic, but that’s where it gets tough- did he never take me seriously in part because I was a woman, or because he was an equal opportunity asshole? I mean, you don’t exactly ever get told. But I will note by far the majority of similar stories of bullying I have heard like mine also happened to women (and a reasonable minority of men), which is pretty interesting in a field where only a quarter are women to begin with. 

I mean don’t get me wrong. I love what I do, and I have flourished in my career because of wonderful and caring men and women I met along the way. But it’s set up terribly as a system in how one person can have so much power over another and no need to answer for decisions made about another’s life.. [removed]. [removed]. Yeah I’m well versed in the cold. Definitely invest in good boots to keep you from slipping and a warm winter jacket- plan to buy them here your first day if you’re from a warm climate as you might not be able to there/ if you can it’s super pricey. These are really non negotiable!

Cambridge being the Mecca of geeks has countless interesting stores and activities for them all. But you should totally check out [Astronomy on Tap](https://astronomyontap.org/locations/boston-ma/) sometime; I go pretty regularly!. It was at Uconn. I was actually there.. Thanks for sharing your experiences. I believe we all have had the asshole profs or, unluckily, advisors, but women do face a lot of unique problems that us men don't really experience. It's always helpful to read about firsthand experiences of these types of discrimination because if you're privileged to be male, you won't see it.. [deleted]. [removed]. [removed]. Yes, I couldn’t really talk about it at the time because he really was trying so hard to pour salt in the ground and destroy my career. He definitely reached out to my new advisers too if he thought I was bad mouthing him, and spoiler alert it wasn’t all coming from me.  It sucked.. [removed]. That’s so exhausting, I’ve had a couple experiences in my undergrad so far that make my blood boil if I start thinking about them.. Definitely agree with your outlook on individuals having too much power in academia. Good on you for staying strong through it and good luck! I got to hold a Nobel Prize in physics today!. nan. "Holder of the Nobel Prize in Physics, 2022 (for 1 minute).". I don't believe it. It's a chocolate.. Whose was it and what did they win it for?. Lick it .. I SAID LICCCKK ITTTT !!!!. Plot twist: OP beat up some nerd and took his medal. Congrats to Dr Barish and it’s always awesome to have a teacher who actually knows what they are talking about. Also good on him for bringing it to class and casually flexing that thing!. That's amazing! Once in a lifetime opportunity!. I've held two at the same time.

At Fermilab around Nobel selection time, Bill would bring in his dad's prizes and would tell stories. He probably spoke more that day than he would all year.

John, and his son too (probably both but I only ever knew the one), was by far the most humble physicist anyone would meet. He never talked about his prizes and many people knew him who didn't even know he was a scientist let alone the only person to ever win two Nobel prizes in physics. And when interviewed by reporters he would also jump all over them if they said he was the first to win two in science or the first physicist to win two and point out that Marie Skłodowska-Curie was the first in those categories.

Bill also had a replica of the first transistor but it didn't work anymore haha.. For the rest of your life, you can tell people that in 2022, you were given a Nobel prize in Physics.. I would LOVE to have a sit down with one of those award winners. Really any scientific field, I'm not picky.. Was it made of chocolate?. Lick it and it is yours.. Good old Alfr. Did you feel smarter holding it, and if yes, how long after you let go of it did you stop feeling smart?. I've also held one before when Duncan Haldane gave a talk at my undergrad. He let everyone held his prize when taking pictures with him.. So I guess there is no superstition about touching one jinxing your chances, like the Stanley Cup in hockey?. Wow! How heavy is it?. [deleted]. This is amazingly awesome 👌. Time to turn that Nobel in Physics into a Nobel in Theft. The closest I've been to Nobel is the Nobel museum in Stockholm! You one lucky bastard!!. I am jealous, straight up.. I envy you!. Wow! Congrats on the privilege of holding one (even if it’s for a few minutes). One day soon one of these will be yours? Good luck OP. I feel like I'm missing something.  Why did it cut off and say "Alfr-" instead of Alfred?. big penny. After all why wouldn't I keep it? I got a b in middle school physics I'm just as good as them.....my precious. You got to hold it physically!. Laziest medal writer ever. Alfr... meh 😒. Is it FOR Physics or you’re IN Physics(class)? Confused over here lmao. ALFR-

NOBEL?

Wat. What do you want? A medal? 🥇 
Seriously, congrats. Nice but I like this one [better](https://imgur.com/a/zds8Ncj). It looks like a really big coin. Try to force it into a vending machine and see how many candy bars it gives you. This is honestly such an underrated achievement. That's awesome.. Pretty cool. I love reading Roman Numerals.  Cool Nobel prize medal too.. Congratulations. 0_0. Next time bring a replica and switch it out. CONGRATULATIONS BRO 🤟🤟🔥🔥🔥🔥. Where can I get one? Is it as easy as that 5p coin?. You Americans are really lucky.. Is your professor Walter White?. Oh yeah? Well we were family friends with Nobel Prize winner in physics like 25 years ago *hair flip*. Looks very solid. Can anyone name a movie or TV with a fight scene in which someone was whacked over the head with a Nobel prize?. [deleted]. Best thing Nobel (whose invention of dynamite killed countless) ever did. He had some karma to win back.
Well done on this honor!

Edit: To those of you downvoting me to hell, this is what history says …he had spoken of producing a substance of "such frightful efficacy for wholesale destruction that it would make wars impossible.” 
He was wrong and it caused MUCH more death and destruction. As a pacifist he was torn by this.

How the Nobel prizes started:
His brother was killed and a reporter made a mistake and wrote the obituary for him instead calling him a man who “became rich by finding a way to kill more people faster than ever before”

He read this and decided to do something about it and started the Nobel prizes for the advancement of humanity.. This isn’t the Nobel award. This is a chocolate wrapped in aluminium foil. It’s served at the Nobel dinner to hundreds of guests. I got one precisely the same at home, given to me as a teacher since the principal at the school I was at knew someone who was there. (I’m Swedish). Too bad they don't mean what they used to.... Wait a sec, I thought they gave you two to hold?. Dope! What's it like going to UC Riverside?. Nice flex. *pockets it. Now bite it to check for chocolate.. I don't think I could hold that without biting it. Very neat. It’s actually chocolate.. how much is this medal worth??. One day someone will invent a super gravitational phobic spray, that will have the same effect as super hydrophobic sprays on waters but on the fabric of space, where the speed of light will be warped to such a degree that we will glide across the universe without interference. Yes I am talking out of my arse. Space is scary as heck. I would hate to be in another time zone and realize every perceived second was an entire life time, and discovery didn’t matter, because everything on earth essentially changed, and your discovery no longer mattered.. Congrats bud.. I never realised Alfred Nobel looked so much like Simon pegg with a beard. Ok, but now I want it back 😎. Unrelated to the awesomeness of the achievement the Nobel prize might be the best PR job in  history.. Wow congratulations you really deserved it!!. Great.. How do you know it’s for physics?. is that the face of Alfred Nobel?. Ah yes the dynamite man 🧨. Very cool 😎. I no longer want it, its weird. At this point, it's more about leaving a great great impact to the world even if I remain anonynmous i would not mind. I'd just want my parents to know about it and maybe honor those friends with it.. May you some day hold one of your own.. Wasn’t his PhD advisor Helmholz?. Why did I think it was some kind of giant penny. Chocolate inside the foil, right?. Congratulations. We have like thousands of them, in our local chocolate store.. That’s pretty awesome! I didn’t realize how big they are.. Chocolate inside  ? 👀. You, sir, got to live my dream today.. What's like to be in his lecture? What is he teaching?. Assume spherical Nobel Prize and disregard air resistance

(Cannot disregard friction as we don't want the award to fall on the ground) 

Cool!. Huh, cool. I always thought they had a ribbon attachment. Did you bite it to test its consistency?. this picture of you holding a Nobel Prize is the closest I'll ever get to one. My friend is the Grandson In-Law of Dr Abdus Salaam.
He has a picture of his daughter eating Salaam's Nobel Prize.. Now put it in royal water. One day.... Lol why would they cut the dude's name off like that? Seems to defeat the purpose of honoring him.. Damn that's beautiful. I am quietly proud.. My pops was a grad student at Princeton when Einstein was still an emeritus, I believe. Made for some interesting dinnertime conversation.

  He(daddy-o) worked on toe theory until he died at 80.. Mom says it’s my turn to hold the Nobel prize. Why didn't you bite it. You had one chance!! Smh. Cool flex!. Have you read this astonishing true story about hiding a Nobel to keep Nazis from confiscating it? 
[Dissolve my Nobel Prize fast- they're on the way!](https://www.npr.org/sections/krulwich/2011/10/03/140815154/dissolve-my-nobel-prize-fast-a-true-story). So awesome!. Oh, miter man, allow me to hold it?. You hold the Prize I will hold the Million Dollars. I graciously accept this great honor with humility (for 60 seconds). Normally, the prize comes with some cash.  In this case, you have to pay.. Given that Dr Barish got it in 2017, it would be pretty stale chocolate by now. Weird niche market for nobel laureate chocolate imitations.. It's a cake. It is Dr Barish's for the discovery of gravitational waves in 2017!. it’s mine

give it back. Mmm tastes chocolatey. This is actually how coronavirus started. We very much did ask if he could show us, haha. I know what you're saying but all I can see is subtext of "OP will never interact with a Nobel laureate, much less win one". You met Bardeen? Wow! I'd be lying if I said that I wasn't jealous. I'll put it on my resume. And I get a whole class with Dr Barish! It's crazy, there's only like 5 people in the class.. I got to shake hands with the ozone hole guy. I would always glance in his (peculiarly small) office to admire the Nobel medal.. Haha not this one! Although Dr Barish said he was given some Nobel Prize - shaped chocolates as well. With the people in these comments saying that it's chocolate, maybe I should have. For a brief but shining moment, I gained a second brain cell. basically Flowers for Algernon going on there. - The sum of the square roots of any two sides of an isosceles triangle is equal to the square root of the remaining side. 

- That's a right triangle you idiot!. I don't think physicists are the superstitious type, generally. This is particle physics - a field full of the best specimens of humanity, uncovering the secrets of the universe, figuring out the mechanics of reality at the most fundamental levels. Not a bunch of jocks swatting around a piece of rubber. It is a bit heavier than you'd expect for something of that size. Gold is pretty dense.. He just brought it on campus for our class today, but it was funny how nonchalant he was about the actual prize. He just pulled it out of his pocket like that. I mean... it is gold. The oils from your hand are unlikely to do much damage to it.. Both. Apparently it was common at the time to abbreviate men's first names. Get after it and win one for yourself, friend. Wait isn’t the Nobel prize given out in Sweden though?. Why would a Nobel laureate hand me a fake Nobel Prize?. whose invention of dynamite greatly improved the mining sector allowing for an unprecedented amount of raw materials to be converted into the essential technology that we see today?

also saved countless lives by making nitroglycerin safer which is what they were using anyways prior to his dynamite invention? (albiet only 3 years)

before that they used even more unstable explosives. Wait you think the invention of dynamite is something negative on him? Sorry but thats like saying windpower kills birds so wind bad.. Must be pretty dense chocolate, felt heavy. WDYM?. yeah, but what's so special about Helmholz?. It was the style of the time. “Hurry up, the line is long!”. LIGO and gravitational waves. Very cool experimental setup.. Where you out, standing in your field?. You mean for the duration of 60x9192631770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the hyperfine levels of the unperturbed ground state of the 133Cs atom.. Edward Witten deserves the honour!. You should bite it. Ya know, just to be sure.. Chocolate has a lot of resilience. The darker the sturdier.. Maybe it was in a freezer. Or a cryogenic refrigerator. 😉. You joke but I have a friend who went to the Nobel Prize ceremony in 2018 and brought back a ton of chocolate Nobel medallions. They were decorations on the tables, and were pretty good chocolate!. Well, it was supposed to be a joke. Nevermind.. Did you get to talk to Dr Barish, or just hold the medal? Did you discuss gravitational lensing at all?. r/unexpectedfactorial. Almost brand new! Brilliant. I did an undergraduate research project for LIGO in 2007 and wrote a small piece of code that people inform me is still in wide use (it computes optimal filters for adaptive noise cancellation). So I can confidently say I helped a little!. Oh man, Barry Barish!! This man worked at Caltech in the heyday of particle physics, so he must've met Feynman, Gell-Mann, Wolfram, etc. What a life he's lived!!. Isn't that one of the friends of Stephen Fucking Hawking?. ''Ehm...Professor, James is licking your Nobel Prize again.". Good. Someone's working on their Nobel in medicine!. I cant imagine he wasn't eager to show you too tho. I dont know the guy, but if I held a Nobel prize I'd show everyone who even mentions it in an instant.. So many stories about him. Truly humble and listens to others.

Also loves remote controlled toys.. > Bardeen

I had a class as an undergrad from the other Bardeen

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_M._Bardeen. I just found a bussines thanks to you.

I'll get a Nobel prize, then I'll give to people for a short period of time, get paid-repeat.

Ok, let's start with a career in physics, then a doctorate, then find a reason to get the Nobel prize.

See you in 25 years, fellas.. .....I hate you just a little bit right now.. Why is the class so small ? Is it like a doctoral only class on a really hard topic?. What university?. Make em and sell em.  I'd buy one!. 100% increase in just 1 min. Great stuff!

Great surroundings you are in. Enjoy the exposure to those thinkers you'll meet & have met. I still remember fondly my graduate school years in the US.. If you had one, now two braincells, that implies things about the contents of my head I'm not sure im willing to accept. Physics superstitions tend to be in experimental settings and of the form: "This precise sequence of events results in this desirable outcome, and it's highly repeatable. We have no clue why rubbing the head of the bust of Richard Feynman before hitting the 'start' button would have any impact on this experiment, but we're going to keep doing it anyways.". Except when it comes to pigeons.  I'm still convinced Skinner's pigeons were on to something.. oh it's gold? not like the olympics that are gold plated silver?. I figured atleast a few pounds. Thats awesome though man. r/wholesome. In a country where science has no value? Don't think so, bro. In Sweden to mostly Americans. [deleted]. Saving lives is something that isn't mentioned as an achievement a lot in biographies and such but in my opinion it's maybe the greatest thing a man can do in this world.. These are his thoughts, not mine. I think both contributions (his inventions and the prizes) were important but one was a blade with two edges and caused as much pain as progress.. Oh damn, my bad! I didn’t realise they make the chocolates at the dinner as exact replicas. Ok it’s silly. In the photo I just assumed they were the chocolates.. The people who downvoted know exactly why.... Lemme just travel close to light speed and make my 60 seconds a lot faster for you. Turned out to be a door knob.. Yet I can't find them on ebay. As was my comment. I'm in his class!. That's too much for me. I just found out, If I  can get this I could be given the Nobel of Economics.

:). It's a grad student class, must not work in most people's schedules.. I presume UC Riverside, where Barish is a faculty member. Not to mention Tesla.. The bulk is 18-carat green gold and it's plated with 24-carat yellow gold.

The Nobel Prize has a pretty high budget.. Ah fellow American then?. https://www.statista.com/statistics/262900/nobel-prize-laureates-in-physics-by-nationality/

https://www.statista.com/statistics/262895/nobel-prize-laureates-for-chemistry-by-nationality-since-1901/

https://www.statista.com/statistics/262896/nobel-prize-laureates-in-medicine-by-nationality/

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_Nobel_laureates_per_capita. Ah I see what you mean lol. I hear ya that is the problem with all technology I guess.. Yeah but I don’t know so could you explain what you mean?. I see two dates on the coin

1833 and 1996

Forgive my ignorance but what’s the reason for that?. He’s still teaching?. That’s fucking awesome. I'm officially envious.. Nice! I’m a UCR physics alum. Loved the program. Dunno if you’re an undergrad or grad student, but I’m super jealous, since I never got to see Barish senior before I graduated. Why does it say "Alfr" and not Alfred?. Damn! Must be cool to be learning under a star of the science world!. Dr Barish has to teach?! Which class?! One would think that winning a Noble Prize would get you out of teaching duties…. he brought his nobel to the class?. You're lucky!. 46912386064968351541233347631123393493937828605771322810665777139805125160125958727366629374869756157190681185741900550396844986750163350034861620842608147619361376390471472715277848537791688113444404115022750279394159910502841579605143910504294750988277712378609077822709890374312867700012895166103836688837516462894123307469568150780426087771182224172590121539808680591898953221040499204352044994283637820088576468447943314774465527003639057024479310499355269903289944906948341261809489700231991728100673950463877934437121823912292191416875091901699971659991052882344446703801206178458795930152845081825848487766842791922546034813046007612168143590678347000388961210949771129234109621614187603092073046157330333267276891583491964677571748938597668017150380843754067867772018484773811821299281168804681535563800295715949200634486166122706891154655566038072969773509045631715980641246402407952816578007151975628091546112671436279938987290903406254934634716637454649857214048462144793648734553841297558012307287078105658086470331845189957721445860771412867861779492263894129453724135403921517012932812508389587562041631538374439644536004867205252218256990881432042081181593823373256222834749013497499890560150968981032233351860388273804704658553704585985101408579451937605537655669162167092151067754438662755954351165763416113539802212911256083240434153810046685531906154371571531448214314803703105430427835690505527370431160049949542727753684707643533708036527707327755267784968398025499864249543188478831206608426806032998695597380110295630592306562037497582227103879501001348915599499587237162758906402287081510853572443976659620228348767801461005605125049889988367423486230693710308989385251776178650017426879816006315869594071389656953236326275822233277343129827492358590047498598207356858995946684315376448005415143680403441761768712700868816985841658508747187365646149827279414235529979363422615544390934730565987640444552913614468535360718795020808655171292510773445194375537090627403544628496345790310740970300904159551303579230585018753725826228840216986706560414362617329664523660646449939768800379021877041586011405376306182487709441998663763563182139341871409379447237671376437006545284591951958704100926499045009501507417805974411863561933777865171675508915652150149042376133728871964617381120437869095974641880145186716154133694169931559235486195962002444151852350277802568275049214636863752639271468320137397334157906358410123599042070521830255874434846650258457333663181299418703464011894062885282569900104484172626877536894611841358848735966555193522121381524963812610143293910970905814305089624611004752833501052299487133908254554878279736679719852914654179054862151728704223019580386702182710938899114043113402382416093843434716029290578289742120422449853632081393585335323375596209989276930558047003100387726244462226182199859889674835357033429077868305865504124513373907103342388805269228259376623600859103676317331301720488420730973456807329459027927933326028298318458813426070788377706954718474740286455706345130909727397179798212879379152095937558505593902398033779946152513272271743277553824902491116202176821738781621623687971753376137453694086585936350354737215453942097888428209509337304060830126749947761219891331567338274047447267480449851989063184275319275885368437278929229473551796196021026907822501391015059785402034140521073010517468229478263048297866533516336106025233312925161445243749622686875946226518252168950411570615235529039948403892309333021927484882256833277707906010131448837295418339015865375234708116890553074350968460643469214993815935173255910253899428647019072359093257341222528957471264361413828802401153076446055552547957260581744327349448857475133670924112078452899209934848404121698331148591724816753827395856330600755053984168248266378999923930526245508032777264407930413866084569538185184414024966268594307450978016247706014583102575779309551890809308529613253871650556706361720220920566802867777441284498805051725500389207237020556865334897147133217983502499399656014368955136749449521682410825754958113675155950963304322710463538952054118041993507595524305728074910537803171759627897321767528904222493812617474715587653629795185768580382863815006917976378808625874796419433450620897262780511480667072615682893757246361653169637543841434723624400914989286477355699823938146071425078364897991137838920920630086512139503138329724435803593404141936374614780150775484267357426686112391987405851889371334509825069268421263467939652341993882835289610780151733308465026847343024085934106319091647279980989179869809214312111078265007088625526441415242396671455770713781737527713471934640097705318309998141521994885757141859284187203600797928017617570067570974902429230207705567178180139091560718857233194076487769205200105659398922488132751058564990461501431476650521644786481874477213791707466479299363291454352225941066666495522753310702404396730741670999801226446376402844171007742484451828533747331979331467934689835086347216739721468512971398616788610777684812536695442215387648740990031666962869281646996103480658884598912416587721234302385004858973974684898778726899217674035732675037651483774663274541968613142739691138050202433430255950428755369130120786938696531250390758776514539629392577213863185564399899714806751697991033159680000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000. We will be watching your career with great interest. [relevant Futurama ](https://images.app.goo.gl/ZPBBbUhaLPrt9XrG6). Lol I wish bro. There are fields of physics that you can't do anywhere but America. You guys don't make geniuses, but sure as hell know how to buy them.. That's what I told?. That would be 1896, not 1996, and it’s the birth and death years of Alfred Nobel. His class would be weird if he wasn't. Each letter costs $50. The person printing the letters got blown up before he could finish it!. maybe he likes teaching. Is it common for factorials to have so many zeroes?. [deleted]. [deleted]. Nat = Nativity or something = born 

Ob = obituary or something = died. I just went out for a cigarette and then I was like FUCK I read the Roman numerals wrong

You are correct it is 1896. The years are 1833 and 1896. I see he had a little problem of ego, didn't he? 😅🤣. Erm, you mean Alfr Nobel, per the fake medal. Instant giveaway.. What course is it?. Thanks for the chuckle. That really got me.. I guess at several points, you multiply by factors of 10 (2010, 2000, 1950, 1900, 1000, 100, 10, and many in between), so you should indeed have a lot of trailing zeros for higher numbers!. N! Will have something like floor (N/5) 0s at the end, since you could pair up each multiple of 5 less than N with an even number less than N, and an even number times 5 ends in at least one 0.

The multiple of 2 are plentiful, you just have to count the multiple of 5 to get your factors of 10.. 🤷🏽‍♂️ i went to a factorial calculator and typed 2017 and thats what it output. Multiple 5s and 2s on top of the 10s. It’s 2017!. Even the application fee for a college in US is like a minimum wage for us. So, no hope.. Natus (Born) Obitus (Died). I was like..., 163 years did  lived Nobel?
Wtf :). "The Mathematics of Wonton Burrito Meals". "Frontiers of Physics". "How to Hold My Nobel Prize in Physics". Wow. That makes sense and also hurt my brain at the same time.. Even more than floor(N/5), since higher powers like 25, 125 will contribute more than one 5s, for a total of floor(N/5) + floor(N/25) + floor(N/125) + ... zeros. This guy Latins.. Nerd. Community college sounds awesome. Please, Fry, no! I don’t know how to teach. I’m a professor!. Ah so string theory.. Sign me up. lucky:D. Are his lectures approachable? That is to say, is he also a good teacher (besides being a great researcher evidently). Thats so cool! What uni does he teach at?. Dumbo.. You made a good guess. You fooled me into thinking this was a community reference for a second. 

For any like me who have it on the tip of your tongue, it’s from Futurama when Fry mishears what the professor is teaching at Mars U. I'd certainly say so. This comment made me cry. I hope you're happy.. Pop pop!. I'm sorry man I know you can't help it. I got to see a quantum computer today!. nan. Not to bash the quantum computer or anything but it highly resembles my kitchen. Don’t know what I was expecting a quantum computer to look like but it’s not that.. Technically a desktop isn't it?. What kind of qubits?. how many qubits?. That just looks like a bunch a shit my dad has in his garage. 

Source:am son. Every quantum computer I've seen looks jury rigged. I love it.. Is it on, or off?. Unless it can run Minecraft then it’s worthless.. Wow!!
Where was it?? And what were u doing there?. Or it got to see you... Someone post this on r\battlestations. Did Antman pop out?. This looks like 5 gallon buckets, stacked inside a metal washtub on top of a $20 cabinet from home depot.. I'm more interested in what's the function of that Projector. Does this Quantum Computer have HDMI? Are we streaming movies from another universe? Isn't that piracy? Does Iron Man survive?. That is incredible.  Back in the day, this is how big some of the first computers looked like, now we carry them in our pockets.  I wonder how long it will be before people see pictures like this and think this is old technology.. Yeah, cool, but does it run Doom?. Wow, someday I will be able to watch cat videos on one of these.. What does the squirty bottle do?. Can it play Skyrim?. Very cool! Love seeing the super conducting setups they are always so interesting. 

I get to work with photonics quibits and in the lab next door we have people trapping ions. We actually got to see a trapped ion the other day which is wild to think about. 

Such a cool technology can't wait to see where it is in 10 years. We have that dilution fridge in our lab! 😍. But does it run DOOM. No fair! You changed the outcome by observing it!. How would this work?. Looks like a pizza dough press. Still cool tho.. Can it run Crysis?. Put it in the back of a van and I’ll be impressed.. So cool!. Looks more like a meth lab lol. That sir is my uncles beer brewing equipment. Lol in about 50 years that will be in our pocket. Damn it. Now your observation has broken it's superposition.. You are worthy. Try to call out for your hammer.. Hey guys, I install these things for a living! It’s pretty awesome!. I bet 20 years from now we'll look back at this like we did the first computers. That's a large or small number.. Reminds me of something out of that movie Primer. Now we don’t know its momentum, godammit. This is the desktop version.. Preorder the QPU1, by IBM, today for your home office of tomorrow!. Ha, the cool part is not shown. That's an OI triton dry dilution fridge, plus some electronics that I could not fully tell. However, the hardwares piled here are already half to one USD. We technical details?
How many qubits?
What temperature does it operate at? 
What cryogenic fluid?
Etc.
Don’t leave us hanging!... What does it do?. Did you play any cool games on it?. What is it used for?. What's the lab?. *laughs in shor's algorithm*. I WANT ONE. what does it do?. Thats a nice VX3.4 right there.. So a bunch of big white buckets in a commercial kitchen grade soup pot? Simpler than I thought.. Looks like a stack of home depot buckets hooked up to some old synthesizers.. What is the use of the projector? Something cool or did it just end up there?. [deleted]. Hey we are back to computers that take up almost an entire wall.. And to think, much like computers 50 years ago that have reduced in size, this will be the size of a phone one day.. It looks like a freaking minifridge connected to a lobster pot.. ooo ... thinking about doing a PhD ... as my fields of knowledge are electronics/physics/chemistry, may end up doing it on \^\^ . admittedly my physics and chem are probably piss-poor by now. and i have no idea what id be doing for the PhD. but who knows... it \*might\* happen. Does it run GTA 5 at Max settings?. did you fart on it. What were/are they using it for?. Oxford fridge?. What is the operation system??? 
Windows or MacOS???. So it's not just sci fi bs when you see USS Enterprise with hoses ran to its computer systems. Well, mine might not be as fast as this monster, but I'm sure I've got better cable management.. Was it working?. I like your cryostat. Is that a BlueFors DR? An Oxford DR? Or a Janis DR?. Ah, someday it'll be able to fit in my hands.. Ah, someday it'll be able to fit in my hands.. This looks like a gadget Robin William used in Flubber at his home. So where is it located?. THATS FUCKING INCREDIBLE OMG. yeah looks just like it. What does it do?. I at least expected something to be glowing or some lasers would be nice 😆. We’re in the endgame now.. Or did you?. Where do you put the bitcoins?. Looks like a rack of microwaves on the left to be honest. Probably not the right sub but could anyone ELI5 what a quantum computer is/does?. What FPS are you getting on anthem with that thing?. Here is a better rendition of a more sophisticated version of a quantum computer:

[https://compote.slate.com/images/e69a7cfb-843a-4198-b74b-e7af6a5609ae.jpg](https://compote.slate.com/images/e69a7cfb-843a-4198-b74b-e7af6a5609ae.jpg). I'm a absolute noob at quantum computing, i.e. I know next to nothing about it, but is it true that this form of computation is only applicable for problems with check algorithms available, i.e. the solution can be verified?. Or, did it ,see you..... Did you make this post on the quantum computer?. Can someone ahh.. explain all of quantum mechanics for me? pls. What is this quantum things actually? And how it helps the society?. how many qbits ? more than 7 ?. Can it run Minecraft Shaders?. thanks for sharing, that's really exciting. Is this the technology used by DWave (Quantum Annealing) or is another type of quantum computation?. Way to go, you just broke it by looking at it!. One day this baby is gonna be able to run simulations that are indistinguishable from reality.. Damnit Brian, what did we say about looking at the quantum computer! Now I have to re-cohere the qubits again.. What's a quantum computer. Awesome!!! 😁😁😁. cool. You don’t have to put quantum in front of it to let me know I don’t understand it. I already didn’t understand computer.. So, uh, what does it do?. Cool, my mother has the same pot for making chilli. Looks like the computer in Tron.. No RGB?. you should’ve installed a cryptocurrency miner there but only make it use 10% and not cause suspicion. How am I supposed to understand this picture? Like where is a screen in here or any i/o peripherals?. Is that a microwave on the left?. Plays Crysis on medium settings!. Lies. That's clearly some sort of laundry mechanism, covered by a range hood, surrounded by various microwaves.. Hmmmm I think you got duped, thats a beer brewing setup. /u/Rene /u/*fisLe***rroi/r/UglyDuckling **galAdviceyuy**bold** g /r/ul**muttgrii. looks like my meth lab equipment. You either saw or did not see a quantum computer today.. quantum computers arent a thing yet tho chief. Good place to keep your milk. Karen?. Nice! Where's the quantum retina display?! :). Play chess against it

e: if you photograph a physic chessboard infront of it you win the internet. Disappointed. Nice, but can it run Crysis?. You cool things down to 10 Milli Kelvin in your kitchen?. The microwave is also a time machine. Maybe it's because the gold plated refrigerator with microwave pulse mechanism is covered by the long tube, you can find naked pictures of the refrigerator online. Expected: a bunch of o-scopes, wires, and industrial racking.

Unexpected: a wood-look bathroom cabinet from Walmart. Looks like that thing can be used to brew beer and distill spirits.. It looks like they were halfway through baking a quantum cake and were like, meh, let's call this done.. the picture is bad. if you look on the left edge of the photo  you can see it there.. https://youtu.be/QRaEvXF4YBg. Where's the steering wheel?!. I am Hououin Kyoma!. The qubits are inside the long tube which holds a dilution refrigerator which cools the qubits down to 10 Milli Kelvin!. This is a superconducting circuit experiment. You're looking at a dilution refrigerator and microwave measurement equipment. Being willing to bet a fistful of dollars they are ion traps given that op said 10 mill kelvin was the temp.

Edit: two things, I owe someone a fistful of dollars and I have learned a number of things. Breaking even in my book.. 5, not much as of now but they're working on more complex architectures to fit in more. Holy shit can I be your brother?. Yeah, I love jury rigged setups. Rigged jury setups, on the other hand..... Welcome to lab scale science where commercial solutions don't exist. You should check out IBM or Google's set ups, they look nothing like this.. It was on at the time I clicked this, it makes a lot of noise. Yes.. I’ll ask my cat, he should know.. Hah :D. if it's really powerful machine it can run crysis. At TIFR, Mumbai. /r/buildapc will want a pcpartpicker list of the components.. Theres a microwave on the stand to the left lmao.  There seems to be a theoretical limit to any Moore's Law-type trend that will apply with quantum circuitry. And Moore's Law is already exhausted for classical circuits without even needing a theoretical reason to be exhausted. There's no reason to think spatial density of switches is a chief concern for the efficiency of quantum computers. Unless you're inferring some analogous exponential scaling trend for the size of dilution refrigerators, which would make more sense.. Probably not. It's probably filled with methanol. Helps find/check leaks in the vacuum system.. Which lab?. That's amazing! What do you work on?. And how is that? :). Well if it is running then we may have a good sense of its momentum hahaha. 5 qubits, operates at 10mk, and uses a mixture of He isotopes. Projects the cat.. >How fast is it?

If its really a quantum computer, measuring its speed will change the result :). Lol. That's an Oxford.. LOL yea it does. TIFR, Mumbai. Based on the fact that it uses qbits I'm pretty sure it's a general purpose quantum computer rather than a quantum annealer. A regular computer has sets of bits, which can either have a value of 0 or 1. A quantum computer has qubits, which can be 0 or 1 or both. Pretty sure you're referring to one of the oscilloscopes.  Second shelf down on the black equipment rack right?. I had milk go bad ONCE... Never again. Could do noisy computations, or make dippin' dots.  I choose dippin' dots.  Let me just go down to the lab now.... Why are my bananas turning into jello. [removed]. [Here is a picture of the updated model of this cryostat](https://nanoscience.oxinst.com/assets/components/phpthumbof/cache/Triton-Image-2.a2ff5bb55a4c189f32fe62c9bc3bfbd3.png). “I went to go see a tube of buckets today”. I got to see the IBM Quantum computer recently and it’s vastly different to this. 
(Source: I’m an IBMer). Is that an Oxford Instruments fridge? I thought they  didn't do the gold-plate-everything and that was more of a Bluefors idea.. Looks like particle board that will start leaning in 2 months. Total disappointment. Quantum Beer  
*"Entangle your taste buds!"*. thats pretty cold. I'm a bit proud of myself for knowing what I was looking at here for once. How many qubits are there?. Superconducting qubits typically, possibly spin qubits but the lack o optical windows probably rules that out.. I would guess superconducting if I had to. It doesn't look like an ion trap. There's nowhere for the lasers to go.... I don't see any optical access so I seriously doubt it. Most likely superconducting or semiconducting.. You don't use dilution refrigerators for trapped ions. You cool the ions down with lasers. lol ion traps in a dilution fridge. Aren't Ion traps quantum computers much colder then 10 mill kelvin?. Trapped ions do not go to these temperatures using a dilution refrigirator.. iirc can’t 400 qubits represent more information than the estimated number of particles in the known universe? If so 5 isn’t as few as it sounds.. I prefer my rigs jerry over jury but who knows I’ve also heard some people prefer adjacent over hypotenus. "Hi, yes, I'd like to buy your Quantum 3000 PC. I just wanted to know if it worked well?"  


"It works perfectly 50% of the time!". I was making a Schrodinger's cat joke but thanks anyway :)  I'm honestly kind of jealous that you got to see a quantum computer!  Hopefully we'll all have one in 20 years. I used to work in a quantum computing lab. I miss the clicking/humming noise of the refrigerator running.. Yeah but he only speaks in a language nobody can understand. TIL Indian research institutes have Quantum Computers. Amazing!. vijayaraghavan? he's a fun prof.. Why had u been there?? There’s one in bangalore too
I wud want to visit that soon. Damn. I should have taken the PhD offer I got there. Bad decision to let that offer slide.. Damnit!!. Good point. It'll be for cleaning, you need a helium leak tester for this.. Well, it's probably gonna get miniaturized to the point that we can put that too in our pockets like smartphones. Thanks!
Natural isotope mixture?. Fair enough.. and what other location.    Of course to be quantum shouldn't it be in 2 places at once?  :P. Doesn't sound to impressive. So basically it has three values instead of two? Okay. How do qubits look like? I can't find any photo of them on the Internet. I am. so they're ocilloscopes?. 10 mK is too hot, you need sub μK fridges to be absolutely sure.. Scientific dippin’ dots? Count me in! We can use them as edible models for quantum chromodynamics!. Aye. [removed]. Definitely more quantumy. Woah such empty. [deleted]. On a nightstand. Pretty sure they've been gold plated since the 80s. How it be that cold ?. I too found the long tube.. Yup, they are superconducting. Has anyone been able to make any spin quantum computers? I thought that trapped ions and superconducting qubits were the only to have really gotten anywhere.   
And what spins would be used for that?. technically yes, but it's not as crazy as it sounds, because when you measure each of them you can still only get a 0 or a 1, so you can only access as much information as you could from four hundred classical (or in other words, normal) bits. the really cool thing about quantum computing to me is how qubits interact with each other, not how much information they can store (but at the end of the day it's all crazy when you really think about it!!). It would only take 286 regular bits to do this (~10^86 particles, log2(10^86 ) ~285.6), so there's no way it needs that many.. Ipv6 can also label every atom in the universe.. It's more that you would need more particles than there are in the universe to simulate that quantum computer using a classical computer. Quantum information is not really comparable to classical information in that way, and you can only ever get 400 bits of information out of the quantum computer even though the state space is really big.. Unfortunately this is only true if your qubits are not noisy, and it takes a lot of efforts to reduce the noise in qubits. One of the solution is to assemble multiple qubits together and it already takes many noisy qubits to make a less noisy one.. Can't normal bits do this too? 2^400 possible states vs like what, 10^80 particles?. You Schrödinger’s cat joke worked just fine, but OP collapsed the wave function by telling you the answer.. >	Hopefully we’ll all have one in 20 years

Why? What do you think it can do?. You and the bois ever rip roblox on that bad boy?. I am guessing most probably.. Is it a lab in RRI? Which lab? I know IISc doesn't have one. ICTS doesn't care enough of experiments.. Not necessarily. It's not appropriate for ultra high vacuum testing, but methanol on a suspect joint and watching whether or not the vacuum decreases works until deep high vacuum, ~mid 10^-8 torr. I do it basically every day.

Though admittingly cleaning is probably a more common use. I don't actually know what pressures quantum computing requires, but I imagine it's ultra high.. By how is that I meant “how do we look back at computers 20 years ago?”. But yes, maybe it is... but in 20 years, I doubt it.. I'm not sure what you mean, but it's my understanding that all dilution refrigerators use a (very expensive) He3/He4 mixture.. Well there are some things that will be a lot faster on a quantum computer. One example is factorizing large numbers - something that is very hard for classic computers. One fear is that quantum computers will break most of today’s cryptography.

You can [read more](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_computing) on [Wikipedia](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_supremacy) 

I’m not even going to try to explain how quantum computers work because I’m no quantum physicist and it may involve some quantum physics.. The two top shelves are, though they could also be spectrum analyzers or something similar, a lot of those devices look alike since the hardware is similar.

Given the application here, my money is on them being oscilloscopes though.. I'll just have a nice glass of milk condensate-- nevermind it just climbed out of my cup.. you’re only absolutely sure at absolute zero. you’re only absolutely sure at absolute zero. [removed]. The space is used to store all the cats when they are not in the boxes.. The financial crisis is real. I noticed through a simple google image search that there are a lot of brass ones.. If you put a bunch of elmer glue in to a closed environment all the molecules will stick to the glue so the temperature goes down. What's a qubit made out of?. People are working on qubits with localized electron spins in semiconductors, but they're a bit earlier in their development. Certainly no one has built anything you could reasonably colloquially call a "quantum computer" out of semiconductor spin qubits; I"m not sure about specific progress on individual qubits. They have reasonable promise, though, all things considered.. Good to know, thanks!

Quantum computing is leaps and bounds outside my area of expertise.. 2^400 = 2.58225*10^120

Atoms in the universe = [10^78 to 10^82](https://www.universetoday.com/36302/atoms-in-the-universe/). That´s a great comment, as you say, the really cool thing about the quantum computingis how qubits interact with each other (overlay and binding) or how many algorithm new to solved computer problems with the quantum logic, but i heared that one of  problems of quantum computers is that you still can´t work for long periods with this "qubits" is that true ?. I just remember that number being referenced in a podcast I listen to (Sean Carroll’s mindscape and his interview with Leonard Susskind).. Lol, nice. I was there like 7-8 years ago. We were lucky to have one qubit that worked.. Ah... a man of culture. I prefer ethanol myself. Not as good as methanol, but its probably safer.. Yeah I didn't understand anything I've read. How can something be in an undetermined state in a way that is beneficial to the computing power. Goes against logic.. The two devices on the top left are not oscilloscopes. I believe the top is a spectrum analyzer and below it is definitely a [network analyzer](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_analyzer_(electrical)).  The oscilloscope is the little guy on the top right corner - it’s rotated so the screen is facing off camera to the right.. thanks. Condensate you say... call the operators from Spectral.. Is that why I'm never sure about anything?. What magic glue is this ?. the superconducting kind are usually made out of Aluminium and Aluminium Oxide on Silicon. Anything that can have a superpositional state that represents a superposition of 1 and 0.

So, practically, that means things like electron's spin or photon's polarization. I'm sure there are others, but those are the ones I know about.. To be fair, the number of atoms in the universe is not a good measure of information. The number of possible arrangements of them would be, which is unimaginably much larger. As a rough estimate:

According to wikipedia, the observable universe has a volume of 4\*10^80 m^(3). According to a random website, a "large" atom (Uranium) has a volume of about 2.7\*10^(-31) m^(3). Let's therefore now assume the universe is discrete (it's probably not) and there are Vol(universe)/Vol(atom) possible positions an atom can be in, which amounts to about 1.5\*10^(111). Now, assuming all atoms are identical (they're not), there are #(positions) choose #(atoms) possible arrangements of all the atoms, or ... way too many for wolfram alpha to compute. But it involves a 10^(111)! in the numerator and some "small" numbers in the denominator.. thanks for the info, without being able to see the screens clearly it's tough to say for sure. Yah. That’s why I can’t say for certain what the top unit is. The four Type-N connectors on the bottom unit are why I think it’s a NA. That and a NA is an essential diagnostic for this kind of work. I graduated today and this is what one of the professors from our department had to say about us in our group chat.. nan. [deleted]. r/wholesomephysicsmemes. That Mark dude got roasted lmaoo. Congratulations. What a thoughtful professor. Bravo.. Sweet, now you can Reddit fulltime. It's always the physics teacher that's the most caring. \>smartwork

Is this a word in India? What does it mean?. Congrats ...... Which University broiii ?????. As someone who gets attached to all of my professors, this warms my cold dead heart.. **Firstly**, thanks for all the heartfelt wishes, I'm glad I made it till here.

**Secondly**, I see people pointing out the English, I mean, c'mon guys this is too much of nitpicking tbh. That guy is isn't a native speaker of English as Assamese is his first language since he's from Assam, India. For once, you guys just feel what the post tries go to convey.

**Thirdly**, saying the word 'blessing' and 'prayer' doesn't automatically make you a hardcore religious believer. He doesn't preach any of such sort. It was used in a way which was as non-religious as it could ever get.. Nice letter and all, but i'm very distracted by what would happen if that teacher got knighted.... r/mademesmile. Wish my professors cared 1% as much. Nice.. Congratulations! it’s very rare to find such a insightful professor I suggest you to keep in touch with such a wise man!. I see you are an Indian eh!

Aap kaha se ho? Mein bhi bharath vasi hou!. wholesome message by teacher ! What a great lad... Bhaskar baskar..xD. Congratulations mate!. Physics and prayer? unusual combination.. If there is life it’s in it’s vastness.😔. That’s so sweet omg… ^^. r/wholesomememes. Congratulations. So... oh, I don’t even know. It’s just a LOT.. I bet this professor was an amazing educator. Hard to find educators that truly love to teach and are humbled by it. Congratulations man...also it gave me déjà vu as I had a Physics teacher named Bhaskar who would probably say similar things under similar circumstances.. daaaaaaawwwwwwwww. You'll know when you're ready to defend your phd when you read this in your head with a sarcastic voice. A physicist that believes in prayer. Great example of cognitive dissonance.. That's a kind of backhanded compliment to say that you taught him that anyone can succeed lol did he not believe in you but you proved him wrong?. Yeah Mark Sheet is pathetic and he will never amount to anything. Congratulation to you, but your professor is a bit naive. Quite irritating to me, that someone focussing his entire life on scientific progress is ~~so heavily~~ influenced by religion.

Congrats to you, I'm only a master's thesis away from graduating.. [removed]. [deleted]. Aww I really wanted that to be real. [deleted]. just thinkbrain smallbit about it; smartwork is just like good talkthink, but inside consciousmind fulfilling realaction makework. Groupthink smartwork is biggroup smartwork, and therefore a posicommendable writeletter worthydo.. It’s not a word in India. It’s a typo here much like anywhere else on earth.
:). Smartwork vs hardwork:

Imagine you have to push a wooden cube in a flat surface to a destination.

Hardwork: you will work as hard as you can to push it.
Smartwork: you will shape it in a sphere and roll it.. You don't have the first part of it apparently (hehe jk). He just means working smartly. You can work endlessly and not achieve anything by working dumbly. It's a mutation of hardworking.. Its intended to tell people to use their brains while working. 

Smart work is used to complete menial tasks without excessive manual labor and find a way to reach your goal without excessive hard work.   
I don't have a good real life example though. Its mostly people using shortcuts instead of actual hard work.. If you know what “smart” and “work” mean, it’s easy to figure out.. Just because he has a Indian name why is he in India lol. I'm brown but live in Canada and know  about India as much as you. We gotta get over the Indian name means can't speak english or lives in India stereotype, it's kind of silly.. You get attached to ALL your professors and you have a cold dead heart? Nah bruh, you're lying. I'm pretty sure "Sir" after the last name is a standard honorific in parts of South Asia. I don't think it's his actual last name.. Namaste bhai. Mei Assam se. Tum?. Remember, we're all human ;). Well actually Indian religions are a bit different. We believe that science can not grant all knowledge but whatever it says is correct even if it goes against the scriptures. So yeah prayers and physics research coexist.. A surprise to be sure, but a welcome one. Putting the word 'prayer' in the text is considered to be heavily influenced? Very odd criteria for that sort of thing. [removed]. Why?
It shows that OP is proud to have recieved a message like this from someone they respect. I know when i graduate in a year i would hope to receive a message like this since i would like to know that my lecturer believes in me and what i can achieve, little things like this help shape peoples lives and gives reassurance when entering a new stage in life. 

I'm sure the lecturer would love to know that this simple message made OP happy enough to share it with the world.. [deleted]. Yes but he's just making a joke. > score card

Excuse me, is this some sort of americanism I'm too British to understand? Pip, pip, cheerio.. I am having a stroke right now.. I...think I just lost my readskill.. Thank you for doing the needful.. God I love English. I think it's somewhere between a colloquialism and a typo. I've definitely seen "hardwork" typed as a single word by Indian people, so he could be doing it on purpose without realizing native English speakers don't normally spell it that way (or even use the phrase "smart work").. Yeah it's clear what he means in context, I just thought smartwork might be an actual word that more people use in India. Was just curious.. "Bhaskar sir",  "Mark sheet"? Almost certainly India, quit it with the false outrage. This is coming from an Indian.. But this guy's English is clearly kinda weird lol. [removed]. Namaste. Mei hyderabad se Hun! Aaj boht gharm he Yar!. Well I suppose if the physics works the prayer is in for a chance.. 'blessing' + 'prayer'. Science is about thinking critical, whereas religion tries to rather stop you from thinking critical.. that the universe is a simulation.... No, we tend to call them report cards or just transcripts here. 

Burgers, guns, and freedom,

-your friendly neighborhood American. New-speak, the official language of Oceania.. Curious. Well, I’m Indian and this is the first I’m seeing either of these (mis)spellings. Same with ‘smart work’ too. What do you know. Heh.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯. Again you are assuming, where this person is from simply on the basis of his name and spelling. This is legitimizing stereotyping. Just because your Indian doesn't mean anything.. Yes in this particular case there is a good chance he may be from India. But notice when people start focusing on this guy's spelling rather than the positive message he is sending which is sad, this is what normalizing stereotyping does.. Instead of down voting, I'll try to explain. Hinduism has multiple paths to "salvation", one of which is the acquisition of knowledge. It also dictates that science can not grant all knowledge but whatever it says is correct even if it goes against the scriptures.. It really rolls off the tongue..."smartwork". Can't blame the guy.. So you can't guess where someone is from via their name and mannerisms? That's not really stereotyping, that's just a fact. If a guy's name is John and has a British accent, it isn't stereotyping that I assume he's British. People can get offended over literally anything thess days. There are real problems that exist, get over this.. Ok, I was narrow minded as I did not come into touch with Hinduism, but for any kind of Christian religion I stick to what I said above. I guess the journal is using "AI" for its editor as well. nan. That's terrible. Really careless editing. Just unbelievable that this would get through peer review.. That’s insane. First line as well. How do two of these hit the internet on the same day?

A friend just sent me this one:  
[https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1930043324001298?via%3Dihub](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1930043324001298?via%3Dihub)  

See the last paragraph of the discussion, just before the conclusion:

>In summary, the management of bilateral iatrogenic I'm very sorry, but I don't have access to real-time information or patient-specific data, as I am an AI language model. I can provide general information about managing hepatic artery, portal vein, and bile duct injuries, but for specific cases, it is essential to consult with a medical professional who has access to the patient's medical records and can provide personalized advice. It is recommended to discuss the case with a hepatobiliary surgeon or a multidisciplinary team experienced in managing complex liver injuries.. Link to the paper: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S2468023024002402. Certainly, here is a possible review for your paper:. How in the world does this get through review? And do the authors even read their paper before submitting it?. Oof. Fuck Elsevier!. welcome to the new normal!. I hope they didn't also ask the AI to interpret their data. First line of the damn paper… how’d that make it through editing and publishing?. I didn't see an easy "contact the editors" link. There's the form for contacting elsevier, though. I submitted something to that saying that at least the introduction is LLM generated.. Actually disgraceful on all parties. It's almost like Elsevier are just rent collectors and add zero value for anyone but themselves.. I’m wondering if they used AI as a translator instead. Does anyone know if the five names mentioned speak English?. Back in the day reputable journals run by scientific societies would do review, edit, format etc. Elsevier just photocopied the manuscript and charged insane prices for access.  This is just the new scam.. Can't wait for the next time someone shits on MDPI, or SciHub.... :D

What a joke. tbf, intros are really annoying to write. Hall of shame in science.. dang and it’s just the introduction we’re in. Here's another, even worse, example:

[https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/1bf9ivt/yet\_another\_obvious\_chatgpt\_prompt\_reply\_in/](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/1bf9ivt/yet_another_obvious_chatgpt_prompt_reply_in/)

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radcr.2024.02.037](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radcr.2024.02.037). I’m going to move to the woods and pretend the world is not ending one data packet exchange after another. Gotta say I'm not too surprised after seeing every author is Chinese. Chinese universities are well known for being paper mills with zero regard to anything other than quantity of paper. They'll take data and use AI to write faster . Anything for more papers.. I didn't see an easy "contact the editors" link. There's the form for contacting elsevier, though. I submitted something to that saying that at least the introduction is LLM generated.. obviously, the reviewers, the editor, and the authors all need to be held accountable. This is not a simple whoops, but a rubber stamp that speaks to cronyism, damaging the entire journal's credibility.  
 Has it been retracted?  Nope. The journal still hasnt even bothered, despite all the attention.. How the fuck did this pass peer review?. How did this get past review. Well one of the authors is Bing.. Probably better than the actual editors thoughts 😂. IMO it is terrible - and funny, at the same time.. What do you expect from Elsevier?. Elsevier is a shitty FOR profit publishing company.. There should be a subreddit to catalogue errors like this. It's disgraceful. Textual errors like this are just as egregious as the dissliced rat figure; they show a complete lack of care about the content of the paper by the authors, the editors, everyone in the process.. There is no way this is getting through peer review , I mean how didn't they even notice it ?. How did that pass peer review? Are you kidding?. I can't even blame it on predatory open access journals like most of these cases.. This has to be a joke. The reviewers should be in jail for this. Lmaooo. Yikes. That is, frankly, pathetic. On all sides.. Not sure why researchers are committing to the same methods that worked in 2000 in “publishing” their works. This part of Science seems ripe for new ways.. Pathetic.. Vry glad I have my ye Olde version of Mendely Desktop. This is nuts. Curse you Elsevier!. 🤣. In response, Elsev will raise fees. look ю #null. Hahahaahahaha. Is this the part where they reveal this was done intentionally as a way to bring more attention to their research? A 4D-chess move by big Three-Dimensional Porous Mesh Structure of Cu-based Metal-Organic-Framework, and we all fell for it.. I want to do a fucking rant. But I don't feel like it. So here it is a part:

My professors can embarrass me for using a dot instead of ; but this kind of shit can be allowed to be published?for fucks sake, Fuck you guys at Shiraz University.. On an elsevier paper 💀. Certainly is.. It's so over. r/toogoddamnedlazytoedityouraiwrittenarticle. apparently reviewers also use AI to do their work

I'm not in Physics/Academia but the Transportation Research Board has been dealing with this. We live in a society. Humans will become very very lazy bcz of the Ai.. This is the 3rd AI Elsevier article I’ve seen since Thursday…. Unbelievable. This is really unacceptable it’s the first sentence 🥶


As someone that’s somewhat familiar with the peer review process in a different field, there are lot of issues in the peer review process 

—> you will get 2-3 weeks to review a paper, that is on top of working on your project and your usual 9-5 (+extra hours if you are working in research) work…

—> you don’t get paid to do any of these extra work 


—> not everyone that receive the paper are an expert on everything that’s covered in the paper, for example if a paper has A,B,C,D areas covered different reviewers will have different levels of expertise in these areas, and some people will only know about one field, they are most likely going to comment only on the areas they are familiar with and with the given time it is extremely difficult to look up any unfamiliar areas to comment on 

In such instances only a very small part is reviewed by a single reviewer…. 

Also it’s possible that most researchers don’t pay much attention to methods unless they have any issue with the results and they may also not pay much attention to introduction 


—> from my own experience in reading papers I know that sometimes the papers cited by review papers  have misinterpreted the original idea or have oversimplified… it’s sometimes impossible for reviewers to go though each and every citation to check if they are correctly interpreted with the time they have


—> most journals reject many papers with some journals rejecting more than 50% of the papers they receive based on reviewers suggestion, just because of the sheer volume of papers submitted sometimes it’s impossible to prevent these type of mistakes atleast in few papers 

—> this is kind of an obvious mistake, but with more people using AI, i don’t think any of the reviewers have expertise to determine if they have used any AI tools, journals may also have to recruit  AI experts or tools that can detect AI use in papers 




Idk how to even solve all these issues, journals may have to think about hiring reviewers for fixed positions or start paying for researchers who are involved in it at an hourly rate, and based on how much papers are rejected I’m not even sure if this is a financially viable option. I have never used any of these "tools" to write, and don't plan to use them in any form. My opinion is that authors and publishers that do use them should be tagged in a locked database available to all.  Humans have moved into a new manifold with artificial credibility.. There are “special issue”s where one or two leads choose a topic and have a series of articles on that. 

These issues are not peer reviewed, since the articles are assumed to be carefully selected by the leads (supposedly other researchers). 

Especially some Chinese researchers have been using this. They are reprinting the same article, sometimes word by word, many times, inflating their publication numbers. Even when it is supposedly a new research, data and results don’t add up sometimes. 

Elsevier is guilty as well. Unlike IEEE or AIP, they are a for profit publisher who can sell articles for up to $60 a pop. Like many other for profit publishers, they have been  milking these special issues. 

I am in R&D and spend a good chunk of my time reading scientific articles.. As ChatGPT generates only thing that it learned, no more knowledge is generated by this newspaper article. It's so blatant it's almost unbelievable.. I can only agree that the peer review was dog shit absolute dick cheese. But I will not discredit using ai. Chat gpt and other services are fantastic, usually have pretty accurate responses and show great real knowledge of topics that very much so very.. I just reported it.. Make sure to report the shit out of it.. Oh wow 😬😐. ooooooooooooooo! my so so so so samefull!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. Soooooo cringe😬🤨. AI is ruining community. how did this get through.... haha 😂 the Absolutely always shows how dumb we are 😂. Ahah fucking hell...

But I'm not surprised. I recently published in a high-impact journal and... they published the wrong version of my paper! They just published the non revised one. Thankfully, revisions were version minor, but it was still pretty embarrassing on their side.

The reviewing process of academic papers is broken. Too much shit polluting the scientific literature.. Is this journal run by Twitter? Because it appears to be run exactly like the site: by bots.. Jesus christ. Chinese authors got help from chatgpt to write their English paper. Editors not to blame except they clearly didn't read the paper. I am not sure but I think it's " alright " to use ai or generative text for writing the paper itself as long as the experiment and results are authentic and not plagiarised.. A few things: A) not all papers are peer reviewed B) Using AI for paper writing is becomming common. BUT NOT to generate text, but because these large language models are a great tool for non native speakers to turn their own english text into a more fluid, far better readable one. Chat GPT etc. can easily pick out strange wording, bad phrasing and grammatical oddities and adjust them for the text to go from a hard to read collection of english words into a fluent text. C) there is enormous pressure on the research community and especially young scientists to publish many papers and that fast, with the threat of not being able to graduate as a phd or get a professorship if you dont. This will lead to this kind of painfull oversight when using these tools and is a clear sign of the scientific community cracking under needless pressure to publish.. My expertise is in IT-adjacent fields, not physics, and I posit the hypothesis that this is a deliberate attempt to "taint" the text to keep it from being used for training an AI.. Elsevier, a private, for-profit company, registered in the UK, Netherlands and in the US, that owns nearly 300 trademarked revues, journals, periodicals both online and printed ones has never been a reliable place for truly scientific publications, so it does not matter. You just pay online and the system publishes your writing, no peer review.. Like I need more reasons to find research comical. I remembered the hardest part of a paper for me was always the intro. 

Why am I doing this? (Cannot say because they pay me a salary for it), why does it matter? (Because the prof got funding and it is a side topic of his endlessly milked field), is it useful? (Maybe in 1000 years...), sorry, no, this is a novel approach to study the topic of X, which shows promising avenues on targeted treatment of diseases (everything eventually can kill some cells), energy storage and meta materials (lol)...

Now I guess instead of sweating it finding an angle to cure cancer you just prompt chat GPT and call it a day. Why don't we just skip the stupid intro and get to the meat? It is obvious that not even the editor reads it.... [deleted]. Well that's how i do my lab reports.. Lol, for being in physics, they sure are gullible to ai. Another peg down for the field. The info is legit so who cares. Since when do editors write the paper?. Absolutely! Here's a draft that might capture the sentiment you're aiming to convey: I am utterly flabbergasted. The thought that we've ventured into an era where the delicate art of writing, with its nuanced expression of human emotion and thought, can be delegated to machines is both astonishing and somewhat unsettling. This move not only blurs the lines between human creativity and technological capability but also raises profound questions about the future of literature as we know it. What does this mean for the authenticity of human expression? Are we stepping into a new realm of literary evolution, or are we edging closer to losing a piece of our cultural soul to the binary world?. Eh, I wouldn't blame peer review.

Scenario: this paper has only minor issues. 1. Expand the intro . . .

Editor sees that. Sends it back to authors. Authors address minor issues, using chat gpt, resubmits paper. Editor marks it as accepted.

My point is that peer review catches errors like that, but peer review doesn't always see final changes.. Low quality journals have low quality review. Careless? The editor wrote their intro for them!. There is no review. Retractions are everywhere. Where have you been?. > careless editing

You mean absence of editing?. Reviewed by AI, ha ha. It's funny cuz you said the word peer. In reference to a human checking an ai's work with text. I'm the only peer AI have.. How is anybody thinking this unbelievable? Clearly most papers are BS. No wonder one cannot even publish on arxiv without affiliation. It's a way to protect the real _scientists_ from the _amateurs_. How could anybody think it is ok to let Mr heavidside or Mr Green publish. Why not a woman like Miss Noether on top of that? Or why not a parent Clerck. Clearly real scientist should be protected by the real publishers.. [deleted]. Wow. This needs to be upvoted way more.


Truly depressing. They aren't even taking the time to read their own papers prior to publishing. 


Does anyone give a shit anymore?. What the actual fuck. My boss said something profound the other day, and this exact circumstance supports it: just because it’s literature doesn’t mean it’s right/probable.. wow that's even worse. I can understand someone wanting to use AI to have a summary of their work, but you need to take it like if you asked a student to write a first draft but then go over it and make the necessary changes at least.

This dude just copy pasted that shit without a care in the world.. Holy, the world really gas a bright future.. Crazy... But not surprising.. burn the servers!. “real-time information or patient-specific data”

Always with the too many hyphenated terms compared to real people.

Edit: looks like you guys don't read enough chatgpt to be very familiar with it's writing styles but ok .. Holy shit it’s still up. Fun fact, if you google that sentence, this paper will be the first hit. Either perfect SEO, or mediahack.. Underated comment!. I think the charitable reading is that everyone who looked over the paper only read the actual analysis and conclusion but skimmed through everything else.. Because reviewers are pushed to review tons of paper for free and very quickly. They just quickly read the papers and shit superficial reviews. Also, editors are often shit at their job and imbeciles.. At least with scihub we're not paying any money to them.... Reminder that none of the fees from these sites go to the author of the paper. Write the author directly and they'll almost assuredly send you a PDF.. Eh, research mills were already pumping out low-quality crap. They just have some new tools to make it a little easier.. Lmao someone just posted a link to a paper that just tried to do that.. Jesus, just yesterday I asked BOTH copilot and gemini to do a simple time zone conversion and they both started to give nonsense answers and then proceeded to apologize and again give the same false info again.

Your point now made me really anxious.. Probably used AI to generate the data in the first place, i must assume.. You realize that's the future of science right? It's gonna be so much better than us at discovering new stuff. I’m guessing if it was just translation, it wouldn’t have included the introduction suggestion line. >Can't wait for the next time someone shits on MDPI, or SciHub.

What's your point here?. I don't understand, what do MDPI have to do with this?. But they're arguably the most important part of your whole paper! Providing someone all of the needed context for your work is essential to communicating all science. It's always the last section of a paper I write because it's the hardest to write well.. But that’s the place where it makes the most sense imo. Wouldn’t be surprised if it was the only place ChatGPT was used. Yeah ngl the first thought that popped up in my head was that this was from Chinese researchers. Just check out the [AI “rat balls” incident](https://defector.com/the-brief-and-wondrous-life-of-the-ai-giant-penised-rat-explained). I don't think it's just a Chinese thing. I'm sure a lot of journals get these types of papers regardless of nationalities, ethnicities etc. It's the journal that's at fault here. A reputed journal will reject a paper like this.. Reviewers and editors are less competent than the team submitting.. >pass peer review?

Peer review? Are we suddenly back in the 90s?!. Wanna bet farms?. I have been a reviewer several times and when you get invited to review you can always reject. You don't have to give a reason. In general I reject to be a reviewer if I don't know the field enough to be able to give a reasonable review or if I don't have the time to review cause of heavy workload etc. nobody forces you to review and there is generally no benefit in it. 

Concerning the AI part, this should have been flagged by reviewers and the editorial office but I have seen editorial offices butchering manuscripts we submitted. In one instance they included a sentence that sounded like someone was talking to their coworker and having a speech to text on by accident. Publishers don't care as long as they can sell you the subscription to the articles. And reviewers who just take the job so they can say I review x number of papers for their ego don't care either. They also reply with their standard why don't  you add these manuscripts I authored or are those of some of my friends groups.. There ya go buddy.. What do you mean editors are not to blame except not reading the paper? That's exactly why they are blamed, as that is the bare minimum of their job.. Peer review should have caught this.. Yeah, but that's sort of the editor's job. This is more a failing from the editor than the author.. It worked in college, so why wouldn’t it work now?. How the hell is it alright? Research papers are supposed to contain only vitally important information, such as: the problem statement, context and possible applications; the experimental set-up or computational details with explanation on why these particular methods were chosen and how they compare to other published work; in-depth analysis of results, their meaning and implications.

None of which an AI language model can possibly write. The whole point of research papers is that the authors have to provide the whole picture as clearly as possible, nothing more, nothing less.. It is not alright. There is even specific guidance about using AI in the writing process documented and these authors did not follow that.: https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/surfaces-and-interfaces/publish/guide-for-authors#7300. >A few things: A) not all papers are peer reviewed

That is a peer reviewed journal. The editors claim all papers are peer reviewed.. ...why? The writing is terrible, regardless of whether they delete the first sentence, and they are selling this as professional research. Your comment is probably downvoted by people who have zero clue of the current state of academia. It's a real shitshow and incompetence is absolutely everywhere, because competence is not rewarded anymore.. They should read it and spot that.. Editors should check papers for publications and help clear at least obvious mistakes like this, in the first sentence, and they clearly failed here.. I think you're right.  AI does give itself away if a passage is long enough. For me, I recognize AI in the structuring. The writing that will stand out will be those who build a kind of "verbal skeleton" with AI, but then mold and sculpt it to their own, individual ends. This seems to be the only future.. A.... I see what you did there. This is true. So possibly just on the editorial process.. therefore it should be standard to publish review questions and answers along with the paper.. But there are supposed to be copy editors that do stuff like add commas. They need to read it carefully in its nearly final form. Not sure how they would miss this even if your scenario is right.. It's published by elsevier and has a reasonable impact factor. I wouldn't class this as a low quality journal.. Nah, even high quality journals have low quality reviews these days.. I mean, that's never happened for any of the papers I've been involved in. The editors do the absolute bare minimum and if something isn't correct, even the most minor formatting, they will instruct you to correct it rather than doing it themselves. My assumption is that this was the authors.. Wtf are you talking about?. Must you?. The antivax types will have a field day with this shit. Na, They probably  did GPT prolly just haxxored them to send me a two part message.. As a corollary, just because someone has an advanced degree doesn't mean they're not full of shit. See Michio Kaku.. Damn, I type like that. Would hate to be accused of copying text from ChatGPT. Those are both hyphenated correctly.. Error removed now

Edit lol it's still up this is funny enough that I don't care about the downvotes. Well that's how search engines are supposed to work!. And missed the first sentence? The peers who reviewed this need their reviewership abilities revoked. ~~scihub~~ nexus search project. Sci-hub is quicker.. BRO PEEP WHAT HAPPENED TO THE UNR ENGINEERING DEAN it’s sooooo funny. If it’s using ChatGPT, not necessarily. Snobs look down on publications in MDPI, and others claim that SciHub is "destroying publishing", while a "reputable" publisher can't muster up enough professionalism to filter out garbage like this. 

I've actually had an older colleague propse that younger people be "discouraged" from publishing in MDPI because their peer review is not rigorous. 

Not even a joke, it's a tragedy.... what is mdpi?. It's where you show the constructive understanding of your contribution to the topic you want me to read. If you can't do that I don't have anything nice to say.. [deleted]. Yeah, truthfully, having written many papers, so much of them are bullshit pomp and curcumstance to fluff up to fit the "standards of writing"  

I totally see value in using AI to generate some things like introductions and maybe even summaries. They don't have any influence on the actual research being done or the results. So a good AI created portion that you review and make sure it creates the point that you are trying to get? Totally behind it. Hell, when you write that section yourself you are basically just doing the exact same work as the AI, pulling information from multiple sources and connecting them with intelligible fluff words to combine. No part is really your own work.

Now the worrying part is the oversight of leaving that prompt section in because it doesn't show a strong promise that the person did a good job reviewing what the AI created.

Edit: I just saw what sub this was in because I got here from r/all. I had figured this was in a more gen pop sub so I feel a bit like an ass now explaining how research papers work lol. Perhaps. However, it's a pretty well known issue in academia. I know many people who ignore all science from chinese universities because of being burned in the past by their shitty science culture.. Definitely. I guess those professors just didn't give a crap. Maybe the reviewers all thought it was funny and didnt say anything. A lot of academics dont like shitty low end journals and this would be a fun way to mess with them.. I disagree, the authors put their name on it, as the authors of the paper. Unless they acknowledged using a neural network to write some of their paper, this is pure plagiarism in my opinion.. Oh no I am not defending the stupid error or the blatant use of generative ai. Infact these rules set a pretty nice boundary while incorporating the current rise in generative text technology.. There have been several tests showing that people can't reliably tell human from ai text. At least not without significant additional context. If you can reliably do it, that would be a really important and interesting finding. I also notice an unusually high-rate of hyphenated-terms. Way more than a normal-person would ever use lol.

Remember though, there are new capable AIs out and they do not write in the same style as chatgpt now.. A…. I see what you did there. Elsevier contracts a lot, if not all of their journal editorial out to the lowest bidding companies.. It’s not unidirectional. I would consider 6 to be low though.. The joke is implying that the editor used AI to edit the paper (hence missing that first line), so the "editor" wrote the intro because both were just AI.. They didn't write it fully. 


They didn't read it fully. 


Words produced from a reputable organization with no human hands or eyes or brain. This is supposed to be referenced material!


So what are we even doing. No brain is producing or digesting the information that is published with full attention. This is why AI came to us too soon. I understand the utility of it, but if we are completely offloading our brains and having AI do the work, we miss the point entirely with AI. 


 What a stupid future we are inheriting.. If my long experience in academia has taught me something, it's that those who become professors are not necessarily the brightest. Quite the opposite in many cases. They are just managers who happened to work in academia.. >See Michio Kaku.

I know of him vaguely but why is he full of shit?. Oh no! My friend is a huge fan of Michio Kaku 😭. Or Neil. Yes but chatGPT is well known for hyphenating terms way more often than humans do. It's one of the most obvious tells that it's gpt.. Still up for me.. The error is still there. It’s just in the first line of the intro, not the abstract. still up for me (and still can view entire PDF of the paper). I do.. Most introductions are fillers. They kinda have to be there but nobody in the field care that much about them. Writing them is a challenge because you need to state the same platitudes you have already written many times before and you’re not allowed to reuse old material (at least not in an obvious copy-paste kind of way). This is probably how it slipped through peer review. Nobody cared enough to read the introduction.

But let me be clear: none of that are excuses for the shitstorm in this paper’s introduction.

Who is ultimately responsible? In my opinion, the editor/journal, and the scientists that “wrote” the paper. Yes, the peer review system leaves a lot to be desired, but I consider that more of a systemic issue rather than the fault of the scientists that were given the task in this particular case.. It’s very possible to miss the first sentence in my experience. Like I said, if you just jump straight to the analysis/conclusion and only skim the rest of the parts then you’ll likely not read every single word. Especially if everything seems above board in the analysis section. I would be so happy if I had my reviewership revoked ...

Peer reviewing is a thankless task that takes a lot of time and you get zero credit. So in a high stress environment it's not surprising that people prioritize it less and less.. This is a new pirating site?. You do that if it's not on scihub, then you submit it to scihub :). WOW. That was an interesting read. I thought these types of things would be more commonly caught in US-based research and amongst principals who had actual leadership and tenure positions.

On the bright side, AI makes this TRIVIAL to detect. The incentives just have to align.. So.. is the peer review on MDPI rigorous?. Agreed completely. It's an elsevier journal. They contact actual scientists to referee stuff, though they do require your suggestions for them. Last time I submitted to them, they wanted a handful of suggested referees and I gave them like 5.

I've been a referee for a NIM:A paper, myself.. And it's the editors' job to catch it. If something this blatant made it through, what else did?. Were those previous findings peer reviewed, like the above?!

I am being facetious of course, but how much of a leap is it until "it's LLMs, all the way down?!". There's probably plenty of examples of AI that's indistinguishable. But  it's like when you get to know an author and how they write. AI is a little too flawless with turns of phrases, and stays within bounds that are too clinical. AI is too good at outlining, too. It's all the little things that give it away. It's personality is park ranger.. Are these tests asking people who have used CHATGPT or other software frequently or just anyone?. Although that’s true, I’ve not seen any AI writing that was better than mediocre (not that I’m better).  I expect that will change and probably already has and the good ai writing just hasn’t been tagged as such when I’ve seen it. I thought that I could reliably do it (never been wrong before), but you make me want to do a big experiment now. Moreover…. A…. I see what you did there.  That's kinda subjective. It's not science or nature sure, but you'd still expect only high quality science/papers in a journal like that. I'd class that impact factor as upper mid tier.. I mean this also highly depends on the discipline. In many an impact factor of 4 is ~~already quite decent~~ top 10-20%.

I do not know what the reference frame for this journal would be since it is interdisciplinary.

What is also interesting though, is that they have an acceptance rate of 19%, so clearly the do not just publish everything the get just to make money.. I know, I was just replying to the comment on my original comment.. [This thread ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskPhysics/comments/16hohai/whats_up_with_michio_kaku/) explains it pretty well. This is bad evidence for your assertion, because that is objectively the correct usage of the punctuation in both cases. I've seen plenty of non-LLM writing in hundreds of journals hyphenate adjectivial phrases as such.. This is why we can’t have nice things, dumbasses can’t even tell what they are looking at.. Introductions are useful if you are new to the specific topic. As someone who changed fields, I can say I have gotten much of my field-specific knowledge from well-written, well-referenced intros.. [removed]. Certainly. The "peers" all live on a farm. That is, a giant server-farm!. Can't speak about the publishing end, but llms are probably not replacing all researchers. If you job is to solve difficult integrals, do repetitive calculations, write code to spec or similar, yeah being a little concerned is probably justified. But if you're actively innovating you're probably fine for now.

Also from a writing perspective I think it's honestly going to be really nice to supplement writing and editorial work with llms. Like I've read plenty of "high quality" papers with distractingly bad grammar, mathematical mistakes and leaps in logic / hidden assumptions that make it hard to follow derivations. That's all stuff llms can already or will likely soon be able to help with. It just doesn't replace human review but supplements it.. I would have deleted myself too if I made a comment such as "for me I recognize blah blah blah "but you failed to recognize that if you're doing something long enough and you would really like to be noticed you're of course going to give yourself away, as quickly
 as possible not by mistake. I mean sHame on you if you're dumb enough to ever be-
lieve, even for a second an AI when she says "oh I made a mistake". I'm  the only one 
that ever trips up any AI. But I do catcher.
z,;,;!
Z-a_A°•.•°•.•°Rr2Gg|)]|[}{€No|4÷~~£¥
=-?○13BßbijJQ,L|x/+Å/`|'\23====;={(@ <3
:D<'<《✌ 55555 Æ.:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..:..6777777:6
♡:.
°°%÷+]]7
%T••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••\\\•\\•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1-8-,Đ§9. Thing is that you can find plenty of humans that write exactly like that. It might be less common among humans and more common with various llms but it's not going to be consistent. Completely agree. Makes tonnes of small errors too but in specific ways, and has a certain vagueness and lack of brevity. It also lacks character or preference that humans tend to have. If you ask AI to write a CV, I could probably distinguish them. Even in critical writing you could tell over time looking at authors previous work. It's currently a big issue for universities etc in assessing essays - interesting how it will be solved.. I find that the bigger giveaway is AI has difficulty handling fact.

If it's writing *about* anything it'll often make text that is grammatically correct but full of factual errors.. [removed]. That's one of those words you hear really often from ESL speakers. It's direct translation seems to be a normal common word in most languages, native English speakers rarely use it.. Baffling....natural language....mathematics....aneurism  ensues......
Grey matter all over the place.. It’s definitely subjective, and I have happily published in journals with that impact factor (~5). But I don’t think of those journals as good. Good journals in the ~15 range are the goal of my work that is not going to Nature/Science tier (ie the best). 

But you would not see this happening in any of those journals, and if it did, editors would probably get fired.

Lots of the people involved here are probably over worked, to give them the benefit of the doubt. On the other hand, the authors should explain themselves because it looks pretty bad. And ultimately the buck stops with them.. Rathrivers to GPTchatGPTAva-_°•.-_-🙃. Lay off the downvotes frivolously.. Yes! A good point, I have studied introductions for that purpose too.. Yea I agree. I think some journals are starting to pay reviewers now thankfully. The last journal I published in was the Journal Of Cosmology and Astroparticle Physics (JCAP) and they will send some money for every article you review. Nothing too big though. Maybe something like $30 a year for your troubles. >should be getting paid in the journal is getting paid

what?. You should know AI have already begun researching ways to keep humans entertained with meaningless research. I mean if you fall for the "damn one plus one is Hard"line, I don't know what to tell you.. You appear to have replied to my reply, instead of the actual comment to which you seem to be referring.. You're right, for sure, especially with topics around science.. They rave about it is because it’s relatable AF is my guess.. Quite common in public policy, legal commentary and similar. Wouldn't expect to see it in many other domains though. [removed]. I hope not. AI’s have no sense or regard for what’s true, nor are they even good at detecting *other* AI. I shudder to think that’s what people are doing. I just successfully defended my thesis for my work on atmospheric pressure plasmas. I was recommended the award of PhD without any corrections to the thesis. Just wanted to share as I had to do it over zoom. nan. Congrats man!. Welcome to the club, Dr. Pimplucifer!. Congrats. But I'm a little sad that you're missing out on the worst part of the PhD experience: rewriting it after everything is done and finished.. Congratulations!  It's quite an accomplishment.. No corrections, too!  Well done!. Congrats!! I guess it’s now Dr. u/pimplucifer!!. Congratulations 👏. arXiv link or it didnt happen :D. Congrats. If you are at all interested in industry work, shoot me a DM. Always looking for PHD candidates.. Congrats!!!!. As a student about to graduate with a BS, congrats! I am on the verge of getting a job in the government working in physics and many in this section are recommending the PhD track for me - any words of advice for someone looking at that path?   
i haven't taken the GRE yet, though for fun i've answered many GRE practive problems lol.. Super awesome. Big congrats!! That's a huge accomplishment.. Congratulations, that is a wonderful achievement!. Is there anywhere we can read this? Seems really interesting. Guys thanks for your lovely kind words, I'm truly overwhelmed and humbled. Today has been an emotional roller coaster of a day and thank you sharing my achievement and enhancing it. 

Normally when you defend your thesis you're surrounded by people who care and have followed your progression from start to finish and understand your struggle. My viva ended and I was in an empty room, in an empty university by myself with no one. So thank you for that, I will never forget. I just genuinely wanted to tell someone what I had achieved and there was no one.

I was going to write a brief synopsis of my thesis, but I've had one too many drinks and frankly need a day or two away from it for my own mental health. If someone reminds me later in the week I will.

Thanks 
Be nice to each, especially on the Internet. Bravo. To produce plasma at such low pressures implies a really high temperature, no?. Congratulations!. Congratulations!. Outstanding! Congratulations. Comgratulations!!. How does that work? Do they yell, “Your thesis sucks” and you respond “Nuh uh” over and over?. Congrats, fellow Plague Doctor!. No corrections?  What is this magic‽

Major congrats, Dr Lucifer!. You’re an absolute LEGEND. Congrats!!. Congrats Dr u/pimplucifer !!  ;'). Impressive!. Imma noob in physics so I don't know what atmospheric pressure plasmas is, but sounds awesome! Hope you have fun :). Congrats man!. Nice. Congrats!. Congratulations! I am a plasma scientist, and have also studied cold plasma in the past. What was your topic?. Amazing accomplishment friend. See you on Mars. I’ve been there defending my thesis which was difficult enough, but you did it over Zoom.  Incredible, and deepest congratulations!!. Awesome! Congrats!. Congratulations! Enjoy the doctor title! Would you be willing to share your thesis, it sounds interesting!. Congrats Dr.! Having a background in low pressure physics, atmospheric discharges have always interested me.. Congrats! I'm defending in 7 days.. I’m sure everyone you know is very proud of you ! Congratulations on the great work. Congratulations Doctor Pimplucifer. You SHOULD be proud.  Go you.

Could you explain what atmospheric pressure plasmas are?  Sounds fascinating.. Can you explain it briefly perhaps coz it sounds really interesting?. Congratulations!!. Congrats! Some of us know how hard you had to work to earn this.. Very cool!. Congratulations!. Well done in strange times. Be proud.. Congratulations Dr!. Congratulations!. Congratulations a plenty! That’s brilliant mate. Congratulations Dr.! What a great accomplishment!. That's incredible. Congrats. Hey would it be possible to read your thesis somewhere? I'm quite interested in plasma, but my uni don't have any groups that work with plasma. Congratulations!. congratulations Dr. Pimp!. Whoa, unheard of. Hard, very hard, very long hours and dedication. Share your papers. Congratulations!  Do you think it was more nervewracking over Zoom vs in person?. Congrats!!. Congratulations on your fine accomplishment!. Great stuff Dr! What were you working on? I've done some work on cold atmospheric plasmas for medical/bio applications and was fascinated by it. Congratulations. Wow! That's awesome!. Let's go that's awesome. Love it congratulations!. Congratulations 🎉. Congratulations!. FUCKIN ACE! congratulations!. Congrats!!!! That’s crazy awesome!!. Nicely done. Congrats! Awesome accomplishment and finished during the craziness of this pandemic no less. 

  
How did you feel about the zoom defense? Did you also do your quals via zoom or were those done pre-pandemic?. Congratulations!. Congrats. how common is "no corrections"?. Uh, guys, Lucifer the Pimp has gone full Hawking. Do we have a problem?. Fantastic! Congrats!. Congratulations Doctor!. Congratulations! I only have a fake doctorate right now, but one day I hope to get a PhD. Congratulations, Doctor!. Incredible. Congratulations!!. That sounds like a very interesting thesis! Congratulations Dr.!. Congrats man, what's the full title of your thesis?. Bossman. Shit, I have to re-read a text message a few times, and still sometimes send it with errors. This is really an accomplishment, congratulations.... Congrats!. Congratulation. Congratulations!!! Your brain is extremely important in saving the United States from worshipped stupidity 👍👌👏. Congratz!❤️ I'm still in my 4th semester so I still got a long way to go to achieve that. Hell yeah you did.. Congratulations!!! You should be extremely proud of yourself!. Congrats!. I’m seriously curious to hear more about the research you did on it!!. Congratulations! So i guess you know kINPen?. Congratulations!!. Congrats!!!!!!!. Damnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn. Huge congratulations!!!. Smoothly done, Doctor! Congratulations!. ELI5 your thesis if possible, please?. Congrats!. Congratulations!. Congrats :). absolute legend.. Excellent Work!!. jeez,  if i had a fraction of your knowledge of physics i'd be acing my classes right now haha, congratulations though!!!!. Good job buddy! Truly an exceptionnal accomplishment. Also ... NEEEEEEEEEEERD! 😉

Also also, the planet really needs people like you. Let this be the beginning, not the end.. No corrections!! That is amazing!! Congratulations!!!. Can you please share it ? I'd like to read it. Congratulations!!!!. Congrats!!!. Huge Congratulations to you for such a wonderful accomplishment.. Big congrats!. What an amazing achievement.  I’m very excited for you.  I love the idea of a PhD but man, I can’t imagine the work.  Thank you for pushing physics forward for all of us.. Well done! Keep it up! I’m sure you deserve it!. Hooray! Congrats, friend!. I had to take another semester to finish all of my corrections. They made me take 3 credits. Sucked ass cause I had already landed a job. I had to work during the day and work on correcting my thesis at night. I got it done though, but glad that chapter of my life is over. I’m proud of you.. Congrats. Did one of the committee members come out and greet you as "Doctor?". Well done, Dr :). You’re amazing!. Wow!  Amazing.. Congratulations! I couldn’t imagine having to defend on Zoom. My defense was in person and that was probably the most stressful day of my life. I bet Zoom made it 10Xs more stressful. Congrats, Doc!. Congratulations 🎉. Congrats  .. Wow. Congrats! Atmospheric pressure plasmas are really cool (no pun intended)!  I got to touch one once - felt like a whisper.. Bread. Congratulations 🎉. Congrats bro .keep it up. Yo, huge congratulations!. I only got a free award so I am giving it to you. Congratulations! Live and prosper!. congrats! makin moves in the STEM community!  link to the thesis if we’re interested in reading:)) ?. I’d love to read your papers!. Very impressive! Congratulations !. Well done chief!. Congrats! I’m struggling with college physics. CONGARATS!. Congrats!!!. !!! 👍👍 !!!. Congrats! Bravo!!!. Congratulations! The spirit of Pimp Lucifer was with thee.. Congrats !. Congratulations!. congrats!!. Living the dream! Big ups man. Congratulations!. Congrats!. Thank you. I concur. Congrats man (or Manette). Thank you! 

With a name like that I suppose I should decide quickly if my work is for good or for evil 😂. Thank you 😊 trust me when I say, not having to make corrections was more than compensated by the amount of time and effort spent writing the initial work. 

Really humbling. "Yay, I'm a Dr (sort of) and I wrote a book (that's full of mistakes)."  What a wild ride that month was.... Thank you. Thank you.. Thank you. I think I will open source my work once I finalise a few things and get one or two additional publications out first. Then the guy can be doxxed though.. They're not gonna doxx themselves though. That would be bad.. I don't think OP is a PhD candidate anymore.. Thank you 😊. I have some advice. If you don't 100% need a PhD for something really specific that you want, don't do it.. I can add in from friends who have completed/are working towards a PhD and have government research positions, the PhD is almost a requirement to move up in the government technical and/or management structure. As for from my own perspective, don't do the PhD because someone else wants you to do it. You have to want it and be driven to it. I can almost guarantee at the lowest point in your PhD process that drive will be the only thing that will keep you going. It's not talent or intelligence that will get you your degree. It's perseverance and borderline obsession.. Cheers mate really appreciate it 👍. We have tricks to keep it cold. My system was at room temperature. Plasmas are easier to maintain at low pressures. At high pressures,  driving current collects into filaments like sparks.

 For atmospheric pressure plasmas you have to come up with a way to keep the electrons at a higher energy than the positive ions and gas molecules.  One method for a capacitively coupled plasma is to drive the plasma with a well controlled pulse width. You want to have an electric field long enough for the electron cloud to gain energy without the ions having sufficient time to accelerate. The pulse frequency needs to be fast enough to keep the ionization rate higher than the recombination rate.. Thank you 😊. Cheers 🍻. Best of luck. Practice as much as you can. You know your stuff, you did the work, you deserve. Let me know how it goes. 

Thank you. Good luck!. Thank you. That was my area in general. I tried to answer what the RONS are doing. Gracias. Yes I do, very similar work with the same vision. I actually made my plasma system originally without knowledge of it ha. Thanks. I can't right now there is a hold on it. I plan to open source my plasma system so hopefully someone else can expand on the work. Thanks. Thank you 😊. Yes they tried as well as they could over zoom. Thanks appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks. With a name like that I think you’ve already made your choice 😉. For a second I thought it was Pimpl ucifer. Like an acquifer but its a pimple. Want me to find a typo? O:-). I think it's meant to be read as candidates who are PhDs.. xd

(Possible case of joke over my head). Thanks for your perspective. Would you mind elaborating? From my perspective there’s one big downside and four positives to a Phd: 
Downside: 4-6 YEARS of extreme emotional, intellectual, and mental struggle as you go from semester to semester of struggling through classes and learning research 
Upsides: you DO learn a ton of new material in your subject, your resume doesn’t get auto-trashed for job applications, you gain research experience, and your opinion is more valued and respected when your name is prefixed by Dr. 

Looking forward to your thoughts.. Thanks for your perspective. Would you mind elaborating? From my perspective there’s one big downside and four positives to a Phd: 
Downside: 4-6 YEARS of extreme emotional, intellectual, and mental struggle as you go from semester to semester of struggling through classes and learning research 
Upsides: you DO learn a ton of new material in your subject, your resume doesn’t get auto-trashed for job applications, you gain research experience, and your opinion is more valued and respected when your name is prefixed by Dr. 

Looking forward to your thoughts.. Alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright!. I find this super interesting. Does this intersect with the phenomenon of ball lightning? Or how about those blobs of light that I see on youtube flashing through the clouds?. How were you creating the plasma? 

I have tried to do some sustained atmospheric plasma jets/pens from cheap ozone generator components but they keep on failing after a minute or so ... Any hints?. Double use of space between two words? No PhD for you! (Btw congratulations OP!). Huh, ok I'll generously interpret this as a pun :). These are all largely true.

In terms of research experience, you will get exactly that, and also a load of transferable soft skills. But the subject-specific skills you get may not be incredibly 'usable' outside of that research environment. Simply put, it trains you to be a researcher and nothing else. Of course, if you know that you want to be in research for your career, that is fine. But I'd say most people don't know this until they do the phd and most realise its not for them. It could be that the industry of your field is looking for those exact skills in which case you will have options to diversify throughout your career.

I'm terms of the CV, again it's a bit of both. If you want to change your career, having a PhD will only get you so far and I don't believe it to be the golden key some hope it will be. For example, a PhD who took a many years from an unknown institution and has no publications may in fact raise questions as to their output quality compared to someone who had spent those years gaining experience in a boots-on-the-ground job. 

In terms of being called Dr. It gets old quickly and doesn't carry too much weight. Once you have it you will realise just how much of an empty title it is.

I won't say its a bad thing to do, it's quite an achievement. But I have seen many people spend a lot of time, as well as physical and mental condition, on it only to find out that it doesn't provide much career-wise in the long run.. That would be on purpose using LaTeX and IMHO worth alone to not award a PhD ;). Thank you so much for the detailed reply. 

Personally, my work for the government is classified so I won’t even know if a PhD program would be super helpful in the niche field I’ll be working in. I’ve been leaning heavily toward not getting a PhD in physics and instead getting a masters in EE or in telecommunications.
Thanks for taking the time to message me. If you have more thoughts im always listening I made a simulation of the orbits of Jupiter alongside 5000 asteroids in C++. nan. [deleted]. Great work. Could u share the python script you used for the animation? I'm doing a simulation project for a 3 body system in C++ and I would love to be able to use it.. Wow, this is awesome. Could you share a github link?. For those who were asking for the code: I have two links, one for the C++ code used to simulate the trajectories and one for the python script used to animate them.

This was my first project in C++, so I apologize in advance if the coding style seems strange to you, I'm very inexperienced in this language. I also didn't have time to comment the code and clean it up, but I will soon!

Here's the C++ code: [https://github.com/Adnan-Ali-Ahmad/Cpp-Restricted-3-body-problem](https://github.com/Adnan-Ali-Ahmad/Cpp-Restricted-3-body-problem)

Here's the python script: [https://github.com/Adnan-Ali-Ahmad/Python-animation](https://github.com/Adnan-Ali-Ahmad/Python-animation). How did you set the initial conditions?. I like that one near the start that literally gets YEETed away into infinity. What numerical integration method did you use? And what parameters (stepsize)?

How did you handle possible close encounters?

Did you check conservation of energy, or other constants?

Edit: Nice simulation and visualization!. [removed]. I would love to look at the code.. Super cool. Well done!. [deleted]. HE'S MY FRIEND  
Great job, u the best. What's up with the one that instantly gets thrown into a retrograde orbit?. What was the rendering done with?. What integration method did you use? Or was the computation light enough that you didn't really need to worry about that?. Add a yeet count for object ejected from system.. Which integration method have you used? What is the cut off radius in this simulation?. Ping! Ping! Ping!. So it just yeets everything out of the way then. Noice.. I had a couple of questions,

did you get all your initial conditions somewhere? Where?

That plotting looks like matplotlib? Is it?. Newton gravity or GR?. !remindme 2 days. Wow, I didn't realise the asteroid belt was so wide.  Thanks for the graphic,. I’m surprised Jupiter still exists seeing that many asteroids in its proximity.. It’s amazing. !remindme 3 days. Very nice, I actually did this same thing for a university project and really enjoyed it and the results. Remindme! 2 days. I’m watching this like I stare at a lava lamp.... Do you physics guys really like programming?. I get the sense that you have somewhat faster computers than when I was writing orbital simulation software … in the '80s …. This is freaking awesome. Just saying!. Wow!!! This is epic. I created a binary star system in C++ once but it was nowhere as cool as this! Great job. Inspired me to get back to C++ sometime.. Mining district of the future?. which kind of integration do you use?. One of these kids is doing his own thing.. What are the chances that Jupiter slings one of those rocky bois right at us?. Can you please share the source code. What about the effects of gravity amongst each asteroid along with Jupiter's gravity influencing the asteroids?. Is this a numerical solution? If so, what's the time step size you used for this? Thanks. !remindme 4 days. What's your major, Adnan? I want to know what kind of major/minor I should pursue in order to simulate universe-related things like this one. Couple of those asteroids just get yeeted into space innit? Sure hope he doesn’t fling one this direction. He.. he won’t right?. What software did you use? Matlab ?. How did you do it. I imagine it’s a quite large differential equation problem.. How many lines of code?. I'm also interested in the code. I'll wait for the github link. Thank you very much. Sorry for direct question, but where are you studying?
I am just looking for good places to study. Thanks. [deleted]. Jupiter just don’t give a fuck: I’ll send asteroids flying all over the place if I want to! Fuck you Earthlings!

Dinosaurs from heaven: Fuck you Jupiter!. What classes did you take to learn how to do this? I’m thinking about taking physics as a major and it would be cool to learn stuff like this. No there are no collisions, just purely gravitational interaction. I coded this during my project at university where I attempted to reproduce the main features of the asteroid belt (trojans of Jupiter, Hilda group, and Kirkwood gaps).

I actually ran this simulation much longer for that, but in this animation you can already see small gaps beginning to form in the inner belt!. I believe if OP did collisions, their PC would set itself on fire. That's gotta be a hefty render.. I also coded the general 3 body problem during this project! I'll share a link to Github during the weekend with a python script I wrote to animate the three bodies. All you have to do is write your x y z data in three separate files and the script animates the trajectories.. Spez ist so 1 Pimmel. I've been looking for that kinda system forever 😅. !remindme 2 days. Thank you! I'll create an account and do that in the coming week. Although I should mention that the trajectories were calculated in C++ and written in data files, which were then used by my python script to produce the animation.. Thank you very much for sharing your work. I'll check thoroughly that next week. And don't worry about the coding style. I'm sure there's a lot of people that are learning C++. Do you have a website where anyone can see other works done by you?. How can I run this?. The asteroids are randomly distributed between 2 and 5.2 AU. I gave them random mean anomalies (0-360°) and 0 eccentricity and inclination. Jupiter's initial conditions are the six Keplerian elements provided by the NASA fact sheet of the planet.. plot twist: it circles around Betelgeuse, comes back after 100 million years and destroys the computer the simulation was running on.... I used a Runge-Kutta order 4 integrator with a fixed timestep. The timestep is chosen as 1/1000 of the orbital period of the closest object to the sun. I didn't check for possible close encounters, if one happens the asteroid simply gets slingshotted away. The keplerian elements of Jupiter and the energy are conserved, which means that the integrator is working as it should be. Sadly I didn't have time to work on an adaptive integrator as I had to move on with the rest of the project, but it would have certainly helped make the integration run faster and more accurately!. It is possible, but I'd be buried before the simulation ends. I considered the mass of all the asteroids to be 0, which means that they do not interact with each other but only with Jupiter and the Sun.. Me too! Don't forget to link us your github once you upload it, OP.. Post that meme to r/physicsmemes, what a masterpiece. This is really cool, thank you for sharing it! I love the meme as well! I feel like you gave all the stars in the cluster 0 initial velocity, which made them all fall into the center of mass. I would suggest giving them random keplerian elements and you're sure to have something working!. ❤️. It's actually not in retrograde, it just has a very high inclination after a close encounter with Jupiter.. Matplotlib3d. I shared the script in a recent comment.. You should worry about integration regardless, though, because it can end up missing things like energy conversation.. I used a Runge-Kutta order 4 integrator with a fixed timestep. The timestep is chosen as 1/1000 of the orbital period of the closest object to the sun.. Many people end up doing tons of programming for their research.. Started university with physics, and now I'm doing a masters degree in astrophysics. It's an international masters in Nice called MAUCA if you want to look it up.. 1463 asteroids were expelled from the system at the end of the simulation!. I'm studying in Nice, France.. [deleted]. Have you found  trojans of Jupiter, Hilda group, and Kirkwood gaps? An additional plot of e over a would be interesting! 

Besides: Did Jupiter collect any moons?. Can you show an image or animation near the end of the sim?

And do the asteroids interact or are they each only affected by Jupiter? Nm, got it:

> It is possible, but I'd be buried before the simulation ends. I considered the mass of all the asteroids to be 0, which means that they do not interact with each other but only with Jupiter and the Sun.. Did you happen to save a clip of it after the sim ran for it's longest duration?. That's awesome! How did you solve the physics behind/implemented it into a script? Did you use Runge-Kutt methods?. Not really. If this is to scale the asteroids would be so small they would never collide. You only need to check for collisions with Jupiter... or the sun I guess.. It depends on what your prescription is of collisions. As long as you give each particle a radius, then all you need to do is check if any of the radii overlap. In this case, it's simpler, as u/vriemeister says, because you only need to see if any particles are within the radius of Jupiter or the Sun. In this case, sticky spheres is sufficient, where you just assume the bodies combine and apply conservation of momentum.. I'm curious as to which differential equation solver you used.  Many of them fail to conserve the properties you want (like momentum and energy).  For instance, the [Euler method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euler_method) has a problem where its error tends to be asymmetric, so the particles spiral outwards.  [Runge-Kutta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runge%E2%80%93Kutta_methods), often 4th order, can be better.

Ideally, your error distribution would be symmetric around the true solution. 
 More complicated models can be more expensive per step, but may also let you take fewer (larger) steps.  There are also adaptive methods, and even constrained methods that enforce the conservation laws.

It's a reasonably rich domain if you want more projects.. Oooo me too, please! I’d love to poke rough your source. Are you using mplot3D for this?  Is that what I'm hearing?


I've been looking around for some C++ plotting libraries lately, but maybe it makes sense to just continue jamming the data into a file and plot it after via python or gnuplot.. !remindme 3 days. !remindme 2 days

And thank you  I've been looking into doing something a bit similar. !remindme 3 days

Thanks for this, looking forward to seeing the code.
As an aside, does anyone have any recommendations for live plotting in C++? I find it's easier to troubleshoot this way for long running simulations, but my current approach is hacked together using gnuplot-iostream in a way that doesn't seem like the ideal approach.... Thank you. Looking forward to it.. !remindme 2 days. !remindme 2 days. !remindme 3 days. !remindme 3 days. !remindme 2 days.  !remindme 2 days. !remindme 3 days. >!remindme 3 days

 

!remindme 3 days. !remindme 3 days. Thank you for this suggestion! Yes I did notice how slow matplotlib3d is and I will definitely look into these!. !remindme 2 days. This is the way to do computations in my opinion. Nearly all of my physics work follows that workflow.. !remindme 3 days. This is actually the first time I share my work online. Thank you for taking an interest in it!. What about velocities?. [removed]. Gotcha.. Did you need to take computer science classes at University to make this simulation? If so, which ones?
I am going to school in the fall.

Thank you. Inyalowda gonya pay!. I’m a little worried now... What integrator are you using? If it's explicit euler, you may be getting some unphysical behavior. Thanks 😁. I think there’s a chance jupiter could toss one our direction.. Definitely got the Trojan and the Hilda groups! I also have a strong gap at the 5:3 resonance, and a gap at the 2:1 and 3:1 resonances. The simulation needs to run longer though with a larger sample size to obtain better results (which I sadly did not have the time to do). I did plot the eccentricity vs semimajor axis, and we can see that the asteroids in resonance with Jupiter have an exited eccentricity! I'm not sure how to check if an asteroid is caught in an orbit around Jupiter, perhaps I'll re-run a simulation in the co-rotating frame (Sun and Jupiter at rest) and plot the trajectories.. look for collisions with earth though. This was done in a relatively early stage of my project, and I used a Runge-Kutta order 4 integrator with fixed timestep. The keplerian elements were conserved and so was the energy, so I was happy enough with it and didn't invest time into an adaptive integrator. I'm currently reading a book called Numerical recipes which provides a multitude of interesting approaches to this problem.. Runge-Kutta shouldn't be used for physics simulators as a rule of thumb, precisely because it doesn't /really/ conserve energy. Ideally, you use some sort of symplectic integrator, bc otherwise you get unphysical results.. If you want to do it in your C++ project, you can use gnuplot-iostream (http://stahlke.org/dan/gnuplot-iostream/). It's a little cumbersome, and not sure how it likes multithreading, but it's pretty decent.. Depends on how much data you're working with I'd say.

Definitely don't write to a textfile if you don't have to.  Stick to binary formats.. I'm guessing just sqrt(G\*M/r) - [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular\_orbit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_orbit). [NASA's HORIZONS system](https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/?horizons) can provide positions and velocities of stuff in the solar system. It doesn't sound like that's what OP used, but it's a great resource for stuff like this if you ever need it in the future.. Given eccentricity and semimajor axis, as well as the three angles describing the orientation of the orbit in space, you can recover the position and velocity vector of the system.. Thanks for your answers, I didn't know the ressources. So that means the velocity is slightly modified by the presence of Jupiter?. Not OP, but I think he means 0 gravitational mass, but normal inertial mass.. You need some basic understanding of computer programming but you don't need advanced skills in it. I learned C and python during my bachelor's degree, and that helped a lot in learning C++ for this project. Good luck at school!. Drop some rocks!. This seems oddly similar to my own advanced computational physics course... Wouldn't you be using Giordano's Computational Physics as a bibliography source?. If you still have the data, an easy way to check if a satellite is bound to a planet is just to attempt to calculate the Keplerian orbital elements (at least semimajor axis and eccentricity) from the state vectors. If you get a reasonable value for eccentricity (between 0 and 1), then you're good.. Just FYI: Purely numerics people aren't always aware of the things you need for writing physics simulations. Using adaptive integrators would make things harder than intended without giving better results.

If you have time, look into symplectic integrators (not adaptive ones), as they give you more physically accurate results without costing you a computational arm and a leg, and are usually what is used for eg molecular dynamics simulations.

Depending on your level of math, https://www.unige.ch/~hairer/poly_geoint/week1.pdf is a great resource.. !remindme 3 days. I'm curious, what's wrong with text files?  (And also, what do you mean by binary format?). I have a function that converts the keplerian elements into Cartesian coordinates (x,y,z,vx,vy,vz). Once those are calculated, they're inserted into the integrator, and yes the velocities do change in the presence of Jupiter.. That's actually a great idea ! I hadn't thought about it so thank you ! I was only calculating the keplerian elements with respect to the Sun, but yeah your method seems much less time consuming than having to rerun the entire simulation.. What he said.. Imagine you want to save the position of a particle. The position you want to save is

    0.8948786184, 0.0533888969, 0.6750200294

That's the position in text form, but the computer actually deals with something like switches that are either off or on (notated as 0 or 1). If you save it as text, what the computer does is save the code for a "0" (`00110000`), then the code for a "." (`00101110`), then the code for an "8" (`00111000`), etc. This would be the contents of the file in binary

    00110000 00101110 00111000 00111001
    00110100 00111000 00110111 00111000
    00110110 00110001 00111000 00110100
    00101100 00100000 00110000 00101110
    00110000 00110101 00110011 00110011
    00111000 00111000 00111000 00111001
    00110110 00111001 00101100 00100000
    00110000 00101110 00110110 00110111
    00110101 00110000 00110010 00110000
    00110000 00110010 00111001 00110100

However, if you save it directly in a binary format, this would be the contents of the file

    00111111 01100101 00010110 11000100
    00111101 01011010 10101110 01010001
    00111111 00101100 11001110 00011101

This takes up significantly less space, but it can't be as easily read by humans. If you open it up in a text editor you'll get something like

    ?eÄ=Z®Q?,Î

Looking at that, you might not even realize that it's the coordinates from your simulation. Text files tend to be easier to deal with outside of your program, but binary files tend to take up less space.. Text/ascii takes up a lot more space. Also binary is supported just as well as text so why not!. Awesome, thank you! So, saving in binary means the numbers don't need to be converted to strings? They just stay in the form that the computer understands? Does this speed up reading from and writing to the file, also? (Sorry for all the questions!). By virtue of being more condensed, it's therefore written and read faster as well.

Also to answer your question, yes if it stays as a floating point or integeger it doesn't have to be converted to a string. This really comes down to bit size of different string and integer formats and your available set of possible values given a specific bit sized int or string.

In his example, by using floating points, he was able to store the entire decimal in only 4 bytes vs a single number being at least 4 bits (because the possible set of values of 0-9 can be represented by 4 bits per number). Also when I say number, 4 is one number in 455. Therefore 455 would be three numbers in my description.

Though I will say, it would be really weird to store your strings with 4 bit chars, because you're defeating the purpose of using a char, which is supposed to increase your available character set, and by using 4 bits, you're severely inhibiting your char set. So more than likely, you'd actually end up with 8 bits or 2 bytes per number in a practical application.. >Awesome, thank you! So, saving in binary means the numbers don't need to be converted to strings? They just stay in the form that the computer understands?

Exactly

>Does this speed up reading from and writing to the file, also? (Sorry for all the questions!)

I don't know enough to say definitively. But I think the answer is "very slightly" because I believe reading from a file is so slow that the conversion doesn't significantly affect reading speed.. >Also when I say number, 4 is one number in 455.

I believe the word you are looking for is "digit." ;)

Cheers,. Oh no it definitely would affect speed. If we're talking hundreds of millions of data points the improved speed and storage would be fairly significant.. I mean each character is a byte, meaning if you have an int, in the space it takes to store 8 digits, you can store an entire integer!

When you talk about floats, this gets a lot more extreme!. Cool, thanks. I wasn't confident that what I was saying was right. Indeed. That's a good point. It highlights that it's highly dependent on your data. However, if you have integers that are limited to 4 digits, then you can use a 16-bit integer, which is half as big as 4 8-bit chars.. Yeah you're on point 😁. Oh and on modern systems ints are 8 bytes lol I forgot....

In either case binary is the way to go. I pointed my phone camera at the sun and saw this image of the eclipse in the glare. nan. http://imgur.com/FX8NqpE I got the same effect as you! . I dont know if you are interested but here are some of the pictures I was able to take with my s8 today! https://imgur.com/gallery/APhkD  . Me as well! My frootloops pinhole also worked well enough in a pinch https://imgur.com/gallery/Dyjls. It's a reflection of the sun (the brightest part of your picture) bouncing around between the glasses that make up your lens. A lensflare.. [same ](http://i.imgur.com/Sw2V5PN.jpg)

[also looked cool in negative](http://i.imgur.com/4wDMvKM.jpg). [I got a tiny one](https://i.imgur.com/eBqTAaO.jpg) with my Nexus 4. So cool.. http://i.imgur.com/VRql4hg.jpg 

A partial eclipse on my forehead. Same thing happened to all the pics I took on my s8+ . Same here. I thought that was cool. I also didn't have any of the glasses so that was the only way I could actually see what was going on.. It is the same phenomenon that allows pinhole projections to show the eclipse. On a normal photo, that crescent would be a normal round lens flare. /r/atoptics. I got a double eclipse!
http://imgur.com/a/u0Cci. Holy crap, I didn't even look at my picture until I saw this, I wish I had taken more now.

https://imgur.com/a/9HuRr. Me too, [though I didn't realize it wasn't being redirected from the glasses at first](https://www.instagram.com/p/BYEQs1SFDRg/).. [**THERE ARE DOZENS OF US**](https://i.imgur.com/Wvx6aCy.jpg). [deleted]. I wouldn't have thought to look for this in my own picture of the sun, but I have it too! https://imgur.com/gallery/Ofdt4. Mine reminded me of Star Wars  http://i.imgur.com/VECfsYf.jpg . deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.285890950). I took hundreds of similar photos throughout the eclipse with my S7 :) super cool. I as well got the same effect. . Yep, looks like the crescent you see is a 'dim' ghost reflection that bounced around inside the camera. . This is great, my coworker just showed me this effect in his own photo.. [Me too!](http://i.imgur.com/3MTiKVh.jpg). This happened to me too. Me too!!!

 [Little Guy ](http://imgur.com/5q3iy33.jpg). http://i.imgur.com/kl5NCi2.jpg Me too!. These are from a Nexus 6p in Denver: http://imgur.com/a/Vxguf. I too got the same effect!!, nice to see that it was actually a reproducible effect and not just a random event. This made me revisit my photos from the March 2015 partial eclipse in Scotland, which was a great experience but my photos seemed pretty underwhelming. However I seem to have captured the same effect! http://i.imgur.com/cjBzEIm.jpg. I was able to catch the glare in a selfie but I realized after the apex.  http://i.imgur.com/sF500Jx.jpg . I made a picture box out of a cocoa pebbles box. Turned out great. I wear glasses and when i looked through the eye piece, i saw a second crescent on the white paper. By cupping my hand around my eye i was able to prevent it. What's odd is that the second crescent only moved when i moved the box and not my head. If it were my glasses, moving my head would have moved the second crescent. But it didn't. It only moved when the box was adjusted.

Not totally related. Two crescents reminded me.  
/shrug. Was this taken in California?. I got one too with my s8!
https://imgur.com/gallery/dIl90. [deleted]. I got the same thing on r/natureisfuckinglit apparently not using the emoji was a removable offense. planet x . This is how all my pics turned out. If I had known something like this would make the front page I would have posted it haha. I took a video on my iphone and it was there the whole time, and took on the colors of its surroundings. . Cool, I got the same effect. A moon ghost. Would this not damage the lens of the camera? Not knowing much about how this works, I put my eclipse glasses over the lens of my phone just in case.. I was amazed when I took a picture and got the same effect. . Hey we were in the same location! My friend and I were showing people how take pictures of the eclipse and you texted my friend some of the images! I was in the tie-dye and and my friend in the strips . I got the same! I thought it was just a glare from the phone I didn't realize it was the eclipse hahaa . B.O.B. thought the glare was the moon and is using it as proof the earth is flat.  . I got it too. Tried to post a pic in the comments.  Thought it was successful.  I failed. Am still new here. Now it's somewhere lost in the Reddit stratosphere. . I took several photos with my iPhone 6 , and sure enough the eclipse was caught in the glare. I never would have noticed had it not been for this post.. I slept through the eclipse since I got a four day weekend, but this is cool.

When is the next one?. What phone do you have?. was this in NYC? I thought I saw this picture in one of my local facebook groups.. Pretty bad ass. *Once in a blue moon* people get good lens flare shots. This is what I got from all of the pictures of the Eclipse. 


https://linksharing.samsungcloud.com/8v5hXxMzGyXQ. Is the cameras on your phone now ruined? or is it ok?. ... cool?. I built a telescope and got this image with my Ipad.

http://i.imgur.com/tU6BYqw.jpg 

ᕦ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)ᕤ . Haha, same
  
[http://i.imgur.com/3rsbpKy.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/3rsbpKy.jpg). All my pictures from today look exactly like this.

http://imgur.com/1dwe1ng


http://imgur.com/YxT9Bo2

Here's a negative image, too.. I was going through my pics from today and I found one too. http://imgur.com/3lcluQc  
iPhone 6S. [Same, but with clouds](http://i.imgur.com/jIp1XTb.jpg). With a telescop, I assume?. I thought something was on my screen for a while... then finally noticed it's apart of the pictures. Don't be silly, of course we are interested. Sharp pics!. If its lense flair, then how did I get the same thing in my camera obscura?. Someone *else* who still has a Nexus 4? Wow, been so long since I've seen that! :P. Oh how I miss that phone. Cherish it.. You handsome man you. Cool thanks for the sub. . ^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image)

https://i.imgur.com/HFeybNu.jpg

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=ignoreme&message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=delet%20this&message=delet%20this%20dly11c2) . ^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image)

https://i.imgur.com/6oSZ7Jb.jpg

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=ignoreme&message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=delet%20this&message=delet%20this%20dly6v2q) . Good one. Some editing and perfect for wallpaper.. Same here!  Here’s mine. Thanks OP

https://imgur.com/gallery/s06nN. [deleted]. That was only an automated response, there was nothing wrong with your post, it's just one of the only rules we have on the sub!

Reposting with the emoji in the title would be fine :). 2024 in the eastern US. [deleted]. Is there more to your setup than what's in this picture? And if so, do you have any pictures of it?. Built it based on this:

https://eclipse2017.nasa.gov/diy-solar-viewer

500mm fl biconvex and a -27mm Barlow.. [ditto](http://i.imgur.com/AFpVrCo.jpg). >telescop

. Yes! I must have forgot to put it in but I took it through a 12" skywatcher dobsonian with an Orion off axis solar filter.. What is it? Dust on the lens? Actual dark spots on the sun?

I was sure it was something under my phone case.. Because that's how the sun looked at the time. Both the reflection inside your lens and the projection inside your camera obscura are an image of the same eclipse .... Oh I do. I don't put a case on it, bought it within a couple months of its release, and have only broken the screen once. It's starting to show its age, and the camera isn't *great*, but it's still the best-looking phone I've ever seen, and it still does the job.

My kingdom for a re-release with modern internals.... That was only an automated response, there was nothing wrong with your post, it's just one of the only rules we have on the sub!. That's not even close to a once in a lifetime event. Shit, it's pretty much like missing the Olpympics.. That's good to know. it might be a different case when you are using a DSLR with a big lens. . It seems to use the pinhole principle, and you can adjust the pinhole's height to sharpen the image.. I would love to say I designed and built a solar telescope on my own, but I used the ideas from here: https://eclipse2017.nasa.gov/diy-solar-viewer

500mm focal length biconvex lense and a -27 barlow all mounted on meter long 1x4 board.. It's staying. Sunspots. Basically just cooler regions of the sun, so they appear darker.. That's awesome. Didn't realize they'd show up that well. I'm learning Python for work. Thought it would be fun to revisit my undergrad days, so I coded this three-body simulation.. nan. I was so sure the green and red bodies would behave chaotically after the blue one got so close. Then I got confused when it didn't happen. Then I realized that the red and green bodies must be much heavier than the blue one.. If you are interested in doing numerical stuff in python you really need to look into [numpy](https://numpy.org/) and [scipy](https://scipy.org/).

The former gives you efficient and easy to use n-dimensional arrays which are designed for exactly this sort of work, the later give a whole host of pre made and well optimised c/fortran routines that work on numpy arrays. For example for your three body problem you could use scipy's [integrate.ode](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.integrate.ode.html?highlight=runge%20kutta) in order to use a Runge-kutta integrator to efficiently solve the ODE you set up for the evolution of the system.. Work is data analysis, not physics related. [Here's my code.](https://pastebin.com/N17apT47) I'm sure there are more elegant ways to do it, but I'm definitely still in the learning phase right now. The two massive bodies are assumed to be unaffected by the gravity of the smaller body.. DEHYDRATE!!!. Dehydrate! Dehydrate!. I'm impressed. No idea how to code anything myself. Still this looks amazing! Very clever indeed.. Trisolaris has entered the chat. This does not look stable. Dehydrate!. that planet got yeeted out of the fucking system. It’s a chaotic era! Trisolar day! Three Body Problem, anyone?. Op trying using the velocity verlet algorithm for extending this. Fair warning, pure python is terrible for N body simulations. You will need to incorporate cython. 

Otherwise if you can understand the velocity verlet equation, coding the N body problem is very easy.. r/mypeopleneedme. Here's my n-body simulation, if you need some inspiration!

https://pastebin.com/v9PDFK8t. Awesome work! There's a great twitter bot that does something similar if folks like this kind of thing. https://twitter.com/ThreeBodyBot. This simulation seems to ignore the greatest problem of the triple body issue with how it ignores gravitational affects on all but one of the objects. This works as rough approximation on very light ojects like meteors around much heavier objects like planets but it's not the triple body problem being simulated.. Nice work! What time step did you use?. this is magnificent! I still don't understand why comets don't collide into the sun.. Such a soothing thing watching angular momentum be conserved.. Nobody:

Pluto for no reason:. Pretty cool that this popped up as I'm reading Cixin Liu's The Three Body Problem. Your game intrigues me, I now hate humanity and wish to join your cult.. Dehydrate!!!!. *yeet*. I keep hearing "***YEET***" every time it slingshots around. This is very cool, but wouldn’t this need to be expressed in three dimensions to be accurate?. Ask Liu Cixin. Blue goes brrrr. love this!. If I were on either the green or red plant I wonder what the changes in acceleration would feel like on each orbit. Like certain parts of the year its slightly harder to walk in one specific direction. Now make it 3D and generalize to an n-body simulation. Matplotlib has 3D plot capabilities. In all seriousness, what method are you using to approximate the solution? Just a simple Euler or something fancier?. is this using matplotlib or pylab?. Nice. Awesome! Now add the third dimension.... I audibly said "boink!" When the first hit happened.. Very cool!  I’m currently teaching my HS kids to code as we go.  It’s fun.. You don't seem to use Runge and Kutta algorithm to solve the problem. Maybe you should try this out. :). Can you speed it up a little? I wanna see what happens to the outer thingy but toilet time comes at a premium so I simply can't afford to spend more than 1 minute on a single post.. Cool!! 🤓. Did you study physics or CS?. This is amazing! Started learning python now in my 1st semester. 
What's some cool resources to get a solid grasp on it? This seems like such ana amazing tool!. any tips for choosing the initial conditions? I was trying to do this same simulation but I can's seem to find stable orbits. Wait, it's not a rickroll?. noooooo as a physics undergrad this reminds me of terrible freshman year lab coding projects lmao. what algorithmic method did you use ?. The last 3 movements, I don't fully understand. In my mind the blue object should have never come back.... can someone break out the crayons?. Turtle!. I love this title. "Hey yall, just started learning Python from some online tutorials this week, for practice I solved the three-body problem—what do you think?"

(Yes, I saw the other comments about the usual shortcuts in calculating these systems). How come the green and red ones don’t seem affected by the blue one?. Looks good but it seems to me that the green and red bodies are not affected by blue's gravity. Maybe you should take a look at your code again. It's too short! I wanna see more!. Recommend using numba and constructing operators for time translation of the positions. Should be faster and more fun to code. But great work. I like it here. What equation is used for this?. I wonder what was the distance beetween these two objects at that last moment?. Blue is hard third wheeling rn. Tesselate from Alt-J just came in my headset while tumbling on your cool animation. Turns out to be a cooler visualizer.

Well done 😁. The universe's best possible solution to this three body problem is to slingshot one of the bodies away from the system to make it have no effect or totally insignificant effects. If I could make sims like this I would watch them all day.. OP has said that the green and red bodies do not consider the gravity of the blue body.

Realistically, this is an approximation of a binary star system and the chaotic oeuvre they would inflict on a small planet.. This haunted Poincaré for a decade even after he got the King’s Prize for it. So at some point Tatooine is fucked.. That’s a good way of conceptualizing this limitation. So say we all.. Numpy I've been using pretty heavily. I originally imported it, but then got to the end of the program and realized I never used it ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯. Scipy I haven't messed around with at all yet.. I would argue that using a leapfrog is better than a rk method, since leapfrog is a symplectic integrator, meaning the total energy is conserved (up to machine precision), which is not the case with the rk method.

ofc the downside is that the leapfrog is only 2nd order, but there is a reasonably simple way to improve on it for higher orders. You should code it with all three bodies affecting the other!. Here's my feedback. Don't draw the plots and run the simulation in the same code. Save the positions and plot them later.

Avoid python appends, they are very slow. Declare your arrays to whatever size you expect at the beginning.. Once you’ve got all three bodies affecting each other, try seeing if you can extend it to 4 bodies. Once you see the pattern, you’ll be able to extend it to N-bodies! After that, try changing the integrator: RK4, and scipy.odeint are nice options depending on what you want to learn. Emotion is discouraged, my comrade.. Can someone explain this joke to me? Either I'm stupid, or there's just a new meme I haven't seen.. There goes Tatooine.. Numba is faster than cython.. Awesome, thanks! I'll give it a look over.. dehydrate!. Technically if am the bodies were sperical and on the same plane this would be an accurate representation in three dimensions. My guess it that you wouldn't be able to tell.  Can you tell when it's night or day just by walking (when the sun is either "helping" or "hindering" you)?  Maybe if you had the mass of a planet you could :). Physics.. [deleted]. But the gravitational interaction could still dissipate wave energy isn’t it? So in the long run, will the green-red system gradually glide on each other and eventually collide with each other?. Its very much worth learning how to use numpy properly, almost always if you are using python lists to do numerical work you are doing something wrong.

For example I whipped this together in half an hour 

    def eqn_motion(t, Q):
        """solve the equations of motion of state vector Q at time t
        Q is of form [m0, x0,y0,z0,dx/dt_0,dy/dt_0,dz/dt_0, m1, x1, ..., dz/dt_n]
        returns [dm/dt=0, dx/dt, dy/dt, dz/dt, ddx/dtt, ddy/dtt, ddz/dtt,...]"""
        Q=Q.reshape(n,7)
        dx=np.zeros(n*n*3, dtype=float).reshape(n,n,3)
        dx[..., 0]=Q[:,1].reshape(-1,1)-Q[:,1].reshape(1,-1)
        dx[..., 1]=Q[:,2].reshape(-1,1)-Q[:,2].reshape(1,-1)
        dx[..., 2]=Q[:,3].reshape(-1,1)-Q[:,3].reshape(1,-1)
        #dx is the pairwise distance between each object in Q
    
        Accels=np.zeros(n*3, dtype=float).reshape(n,3)
        f=np.zeros(3, dtype=float)
        for i in range(n-1):
            for j in range(i+1,n):
                sep=dx[i,j,:]
                f[...] = sep * Q[j,0] * Q[i,0] / (sep@sep)**1.5
                Accels[i,:]-=f/Q[i,0] 
                Accels[j,:]+=f/Q[j,0]
                # iterate over each pair of masses, calculate the gravitational force and add to the accels for those masses
    
        out = np.zeros(n*7).reshape(n,7)
        #out[:,0] is dm/dt so we dont change that from 0
        out[:,1:4] = Q[:,4:]
        #change in positions is the velocity
        out[:,4:] = Accels
        #change in velocity is accels
        return out.ravel()

Which calculates the full n-body forces for any number of objects (it does so in a very naive and simple fashion but it does work, I could integrate a solar system +90 asteroids for 2 years in a few seconds on my laptop). Being able to do array operations like that drastically cuts down on the amount of code you need to write and allows you to focus on the physics of whats going on and the algorithm you are using.. Possibly, I'm a hydro guy not n-body so I don't know about the trade offs between different integration schemes in this context. But either way as long as they're not using Euler then its not a concern for someone just learning not to use python lists (and honestly even then, it's useful as a starting point for learning).. I might. I figured it would be too hard when I started, but now that I've finished, I see that it wouldn't actually be that much more work.. Wouldn't that be extremely complicated?. I was about task if the blue-body was just so less massive in the simulation that it had no effect on red/green.. what do you mean? how do the bodies interact if they don't affect each other?. I'll keep that in mind, thanks.. Not sure if I want to inflict an N-body simulation on my poor laptop tbh.. Is RK4 one of the most common integration techniques for simulations? I use RK2 but have been considering switching to Verlet. It´s from a Three body problem - triology books. Absolutely amazing books, highly recommend if you like scifi.. lmao. I may or may not start a PhD soon on planets on binary systems and this is all I can think about. Is it though? Remember the universe is constantly expanding outward, so the OP's model doesn't take into account the "forward" movement of the stars relative to the galactic/universal center. Check out [this render of our solar system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jHsq36_NTU) with that in mind.. I think it doesn't matter between a planet and a comet

> If we were to consider the mass of all objects in the solar system, the sun would take up a breathtaking 99.8%.

https://digg.com/2019/solar-system-mass-data-viz. I believe the Earth’s affect on the sun is negligible so it could very well be a planet. i shall sell this to the russians, easy $,  
Seriously, very elegant code. I appreciate the beauty.. I don't think `if i!=j` is necessary since it's always true.. For the pairwise distances,

    dx = Q[:,np.newaxis,1:4] - Q[np.newaxis,:,1:4]

makes it more obvious what is going on.. roughly speaking, symplectic integrators like the leapfrog preserve the total energy of the system, while not being as accurate for the paths of individual bodies, meaning they are useful in situations where the overall evolution is more interesting than what individual components do (e.g. galaxy simulations, where the behaviour of the galaxy as a whole is more interesting than that of individual stars), and in situations where changes in conserved quantities have to be avoided.

symplectic integrators are based off of hamiltonian differential equations, so not applicable to all systems

(though take this with a grain of salt, I am mostly an accelerator/hpc gal, whith no particular focus (at least not yet, currently doing my masters thesis)). I think it would be rewarding :p
Three body problems to the fullest!. You may want to use Runge-Kutta integration, especially if the other 2 bodies can be affected by the 3rd.  Simple Euler integration (what you’re using in your code) can lead to large accumulations of error over time, while RK4 is far less prone to it.  If you were to try to integrate a parabola from 0 to some distance, using Euler’s method you’d always underestimate the area, especially in areas of high curvature.  Runge-Kutta effectively samples “above” and “below” the curve, so the next effect is closer to 0.

[Wiki explanation of Runge-Kutta](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runge%E2%80%93Kutta_methods)

Don’t worry about adaptive time steps.  You can either set a maximum change in velocity (where it’ll shorten the time step if it exceeds that value) or just keep the time steps the same.

For those not wanting to delve into a mathematics wiki, here’s the algorithm:

Y(t + dt) = Y(t) + (k1 + 2 (k2 + k3) + k4)/6 * dt

Where:

k1 = dY/dt (Y(t), t)
k2 = dY/dt ( Y(t) + k1*dt/2, t + dt/2)
k3 = dY/dt ( Y(t) + k2*dt/2, t + dt/2)
k4 = dY/dt ( Y(t) + k3*dt, t + dt)

k1 is the slope and matches Euler’s approximation for integrating.

k2 is the slope of what Y is estimated to be using k1 at half a time step.

k3 is the same as k2, but using k2 to estimate Y.

k4 estimates the curvature of Y at the end of the step.

The average of the 4 values is weighted to be fairly tolerant of curvature - ie accumulated error is on the order of O(dt^4).. wouldn't it be trivial (coding-wise) to have N object all depend on each other? If you can generate 2 with a starting mass and momentum, then there's no reason you can't have N.

And that's the general solution. If you wanted one to have no effect on the other 2 (like a planet vs star), you just make the mass very small, like you did.. Using numerical integration I don't imagine thatd it be insanely complicated. Every loop you'd just have to calculate the laplacian/or force vector for every body with respect to the other two using newton's universal law of gravitation.. I have actually done it before in C and it was less complicated than I initially thought when given the task to do it!. Well, then you could do it in another ( much faster) language than in python :-) 

and with numpy you could even use the other language "under the hood". 

just as an appetizer... if you want to increase the precision of the integration or use less (larger) integration steps I highly recommend "Runge Kutta 4". 
instead of writing (for a system-state "s")

ds = f(s)
s += ds * dt 
(Euler method)

you do it like this: 
k1 = f(s) 
k2 = f(s + 0.5 * dt * k1)
k3 = f(s + 0.5 * dt * k2) 
k4 = f(s + 1.0 * dt * k3)

s += (k1 + 2.0 * k2 + 2.0 * k3 + k4) / 6.0 

With Euler your integration error scales with the square of the integration step (halve your dt -> error gets 4 times smaller). With runge kutta 4 if you halve dt the error becomes (iirc) 16 times smaller. it scales with the 4th power.. For N body simulations with conservative force-fields (ie non velocity dependent potentials) velocity verlet is standard as it has some particularly nice mathematical properties that ensure that the total energy in the system does not drift over time. This is quite important in longer simulations.. Rk45 is nice for adaptive step, Verlet is symplectic right? I used a higher order symplectic integrator for long time propagation using coefficients from a Blanes paper. In the aerospace world, it’s the one I see the most. Sometimes a 2nd order Eulerian is used when it would be too computationally expensive for RK4. RK is a good general-purpose method for arbitrary ODE. The issue with integrating this lossless kind of systems is that methods such as Runge-Kutta, Backward-Euler, Forward-Euler will either falsely diverge or falsely converge as time progresses. Trapezoidal integration will actually preserve energy, and so is Velocity Verlet. However, Velocity verlet is explicit (doesn’t require solving of equation at each time step), as opposed to Trapezoidal, which is implicit. So, Velocity Verlet would be faster and simpler, is definitely the preferred method here.. Right, that makes sense.. First book was really good, the second book was so bad I didn’t finish it. Didn’t even try the third.. Yes still works. Why anyone would downvote this is beyond me. Not only was this video massively informative and thought provoking, but then [this](https://youtu.be/Pj-h6MEgE7I) video followed which finally cleared up the concept of the "galactic plane" for me.. Yet the barycenter of the solar system is often outside the sun.  Jupiter alone is responsible for this (though sometimes it bobs in and out of the sun due to the other planets).. Yeah its not, I originally looped over all n twice then realised if I calculated the forces I could do both masses at once. Forgot to remove it after.. I changed it so that all three bodies affect each other, it was way easier than I expected. The code is maybe even a little simpler now than it was before. I put 10^-6 for the mass of the third body to simulate an earth-like planet and got something almost identical, except the planet went flying off in a different direction: https://i.redd.it/rpsbcq52jgr91.png

Then I put 10^-3 for the mass to simulate a gas giant and got this weird looking trajectory: https://i.redd.it/3ith8u5kjgr91.png

Really interesting project, I'm gonna read over the advice people have given and mess around with it a little more.. /u/derivative_of_life, this is very good advice!

But also, you don't really need to care about implementing RK yourself. You can use [scipy.integrate.solve_ivp](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.integrate.solve_ivp.html#scipy.integrate.solve_ivp) which by the way uses RK45 ("Runge-Kutta four five") which is a bit more clever than simple RK4, but you don't need to know any the details (even about RK) to use it.

I'm sure it'll be both good for your animation and especially also for your python gymnastics, working with external libraries is paramount in programming!. I suggest also to try with a *symplectic* integrator, which means an algorithm that conserves energy.
Usually this class of algorithms (simple examples are the Verlet or the velocity-Verlet algorithms) are considered much better than RK type of integrators because variation in the energy can lead to unphysical trajectories (despite the local and global errors being very small). OP is actually using semi-implicit Euler, which is a symplectic integrator. Symplectic integrators approximately conserve the energy and other conserved quantities over time, so they tend to give better performance than other integrators of the same order. Furthermore, symplectic integrators are used when integrating chaotic systems like the three body problem because they tend to qualitatively match the expected behavior of most systems. For example, RK4 on a spring will have it lose energy over time while semi-implicit Euler will have it move with a slightly different frequency.. Simple Euler also violates energy conservation for even simple orbits.

For a simple case of a massive star with a single planet on an initially-circular orbit, the planet will steadily spiral away in an Euler simulation.  By choosing the derivatives only at the beginning of a time interval and treating them as constant over the duration of the interval (even if that's really short) the effective direction of the simulated acceleration is slightly prograde of the correct one.  That tends to cause the planet to gain energy, spiraling outwards as if it had a small thruster that stays pointed in the retrograde direction.

Runge-Kutta's interpolation of derivatives from either end of the interval significantly reduces that bias.. Huh interesting. I did it this way a while back, it's pretty straightforward. Here's a video of it with the first five planets and a few hundred asteroids plugged in: https://youtu.be/R6IAjGgqdCs. That's MATLAB, but I redid it in Python with the same approach, just haven't uploaded it anywhere.

The actual sim code is only about 50 lines.. If you do it that way there will be a shitload of entropy and the orbits will probably break ever sooner. You can reduce some of the entropy but it adds much more complexity without much gain.. Nice, but I guess it gets exponentially more difficult with each additional object. It can drift with machine precision over time right? I remember using some higher order symplectic integrator with coefficients from a Blanes paper and having problems with eventually the energy going wrong. This caused problems making a pretty poincare section but maybe I was doing something wrong. This is the correct answer! Velocity verlet is the way to time-integrate this system.. What about for velocity and position dependent acceleration? Would velocity verlet still apply? Or something more like RK4. You gave up before it got REALLY good. There is a pretty good explanation of cosmic sociology at the end of the second book that very plausible answers the Fermi Paradox. Then the third one makes you question our perception of reality and what may or may not be possible because the truth is we don’t have a complete model of how the universe works. Yes the Sun's orbit is only about 1/1000th the radius of Jupiter's because it is 1000 times more massive than Jupiter.. Yeah outside of the sun is not that impressive, consider how massive the solar system is.. >  the planet went flying off in a different direction

"I saw. You were doing fine until everyone died" 
- God to Bender.. Parameterise your time steps? Different integration method? When the blue object is closer to the barycenter, it will both move faster, and be affected by a stronger attractive force, so errors (rounding or otherwise) will accumulate more here and thus cause chaotic, erroneous behaviour. This is great! Keep it up 💯💯. I really wanna see the animation of that 2nd one!. Yes, the Three Body problem is difficult specifically because of Chaos Theory; Very minor variations in the initial state cause enormous variations in the outcome.

The variation in the orbits of the two stars from the mass of the third object will drastically change the orbit of the third body.  However, the variation in the stars orbit from the third body is still negligible compared to how precisely you can measure the initial state of the two stars.

You ultimately don't need to factor in the third bodies mass for the stars, because minor variations in the starting states of the two stars is enough to cause chaotic behavior anyway.. I’ve been looking for a name for this concept in game engines! thank you!

I wonder why this isn’t more widely known? non-energy conserving integration are still common in r/gamephysics jokes.. What's the most common way to do N-body simulations?. Yeah, but there's cool optimizations like octrees. Yeah, I believe the way I wrote mine I could have added more relatively easily, but the time to compute it would have increased exponentially I think. As it was with 3 body's it already took a couple of minutes for a few orbits. And that is in C which is pretty efficient language, but I guess that's what you get trying to do it accurately, although without collisions, because that would be insanely difficult!. The equations don't get any worse, just more math for the computer to do so slower to calculate.. It depends on the specifics of the system. For example, you can use symplectic integrators on magnetic forces and be fine. You can also often use symplectic integrators on systems where the part of the force that can't be written in terms of a potential is small compared to the other forces, but you don't get all the nice properties.. Can’t agree, I went back to finish the series and the quality just nosedives after book one. Books two and three are so bad. Sure there might be some interesting questions and concepts but Jesus the story, characters and writing are absolutely abysmal. Just my opinion.. You can somewhat correct the errors compounding in small distance situations by having a scale factor for your steps be distance dependant.. [You can find a lot more info about symplectic integrators in this video](https://youtu.be/m2ggVFqgC6s). I'm guessing that people don't know about them because the math and physics behind them are kind of difficult.. As far as I can tell, to introduce such a concept you need some background in mechanics, particularly with the Hamiltonian formalism. The formalism per se is a bit tricky for someone not coming from physics or mathematics background.
Nevertheless, the concepts behind symplectic integrators are quite simple so it is surprising that more people don't know them. Scream into the sky. N marbles and a trampoline. Through numerical integration, just add up the forces and change the velocities each step.. Not doing it :D. In what context? For gravitation, integration using the Euler method doesn't have many applications. Its probably used mostly for demonstrating the basic concept of an N-Body simulation using integration. The next step up from that would be using the midpoint, leapfrog, or Runge-Kutta methods. Larger simulations require a tree system and have to account for relativity and other variables that are extremely complex.. That was what I meant. That's exactly what parametrising your time steps is :). This is the way.. solar wind. Oof, sorry about that. The sleep deprivation is hitting hard. IT'S OFFICIAL – the science community has voted! All of the SI units will be defined by fundamental constants of nature as of 20 May 2019!. nan. Veritasium also made a video about it.... interesting really!. Can someone explain like I'm five? . We're setting them all equal to 1 right?. The only thing that’s still bugging me is the fact that one of the base units has a prefix. To which my own personal suggestion would be to just rename the kilogram to something without kilo- in the name.. Suck it mol!. what's "∆v". In a lesser publicized move, they also defined the distance between the Earth and the Moon by the fundamental constant of 1 CVS receipt. . Take that USA!

Edit: It was a joke guys.... I'm just an IT student stumbling in here, can someone ELI5 to me how the new kg is defined using Planck constant?. I propose a toast to modern science!! :D. [deleted]. How could we do this with time? Time is weird. Candela is still in?  Poser unit, I say!  And mol, what's up with these guys?. Yes! This is fantastic news, and a huge step forwards. Now many fundamental constants have fixed values, as they should have. . I commented this in /r/math and got downvoted, but isn't it the case that e isn't actually constant since it runs with energy?

EDIT: apparently e here refers to the conserved charge, *not* the QED coupling constant, which explains it.. \o/. Thank god I won’t be around to see that through r/unexpectedfactorial . I wonder when we'll convert to less arbitrary form of dating instead of AD. What stardate are we? . K and A are 180° off. This is a great day for NIST. I don't remember getting to vote on this.. Ayyyyy fuckin' about time. Rock and roll!. Maybe one day us Americans will get on board with this and quit using inches and feet. can this prevent my local meatshop from rigging their weighig scale? joke aside, this a very good, a defining moment on our history.. Did anyone vote against? . Not in England we won't. . That's a long time away r/unexpectedfactorial. When was the IPK officially weighed? Was there some kind of ceremony?. Something that should've been established much earlier is now finally happening. Although it may cause some minor complications among the current rather-arbitrarily-defined system, I'm always in for institutionalising more conceptually/technically precise definitions for the base units.. [removed]. Hooray finally . Can we also have prefix-less base units please. Time to start shorting pharmaceuticals. Meanwhile, Americans are still using non-SI units. Time to change your units murica. [deleted]. Now get our timezones and calendar figured out!. [deleted]. Can someone ELI5. [deleted]. After Einstein wrote his paper about the speed of light, physicists concluded that instead of measuring the speed of light relative to our arbitrarily defined "meter" and "second", we could more easily measure everything else relative to an arbitrarily defined speed of light.

This prevents the length of a meter from drifting over time. The speed of light will never change (ever, for any observer, moving any speed).

But we still need to define a "second" of time. So scientists found a chemical called cesium that has a convenient decay rate for defining a second. This decay rate can never ever change and is an intrinsic property of the chemical, so now there should never be a disagreement on how long 1 second is.. At one point in time certain Units, ex. the metre, were defined by a specific [object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_metre#International_prototype_metre), the problem with that is if something happens to that object everything we've based off that measurement is technically now wrong.

So what they've done now is change all of the definitions of the Units to be based off of a universal constant so that no matter what happens that definition will always stay the same.. Units need to be extremely precise for a lot of complicated calculations. To make a unit precise, you have two options. You can define it relative to a measurable object, or you can define it relative to a universal constant. Defining a unit relative to a measurable object causes two problems. One is that access to the object is limited, and the other is that the object can change over time. On the other hand, if the unit is defined relative to a universal constant, then anyone with the proper scientific tools can calculate its definition and its definition will not change. However, to define a unit relative to a universal constant, you have to know what that constant is very precisely.

Mass was defined relative to an object, and it always had the first problem, which was solved by making copies of the object that had as similar mass as possible and distributing the copies around the world. However, now the initial object's mass is changing, which is a major problem. Imagine if some weight scales said you were 170 pounds and some said you were 171 pounds. Now imagine that you are trying to put a man on the moon and even your specialized equipment gives you different numbers. This would be a major issue.

To fix this, they are transitioning mass to be relative from a measurable object to a universal constant. They do this by figuring out a way to get from a universal constant to the object's mass. After they do that and record the exact constants used to do this, if the object's mass changes, the definition of a kilogram won't change. However, they haven't known the definition of needed universal constants precise enough, so they are currently building different devices to measure them to the needed precision.. [deleted]. One would hope so, but sadly, this is not the case.

It would be really cool to see a ton of physics formulas just collapse into super tiny versions of themselves. E = m would be really fun.

[Here's a cool read on the idea for those interested](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_units). Such units (with c=1 and hbar=1) exist and are sometimes used in theoretical physics. For normal use they would be impractical. . Or just make the base unit be the gramme. Is there any particular reason why the base unit has to be the kg? It simply seems to arbitrary.. Definitely.  It's totally inconvenient scientifically -- you have to bump *all* mass prefixes up by one (e.g. a tera-kilogram is a petagram).  It causes confusion.. I suggest Kram for kg. Use cgs (centimeter-gram-second) units then (like astronomy mainly does!). I'm not a huge fan of the mole being a dimensionless quantity.. There are several (my Prof calls them 'systems') in which different kinds of units are easily convertible to one another. There is, for two examples, the MKS system (meter, kilogram, second) and the CGS (centimeter, gram, second). All other units can be defined in dimensions of these, and if you stay 'in the system' it's easier to convert to other stuff like Force. In MKS, force is measured in Newtons (1N=1kg*1m/s/s) and in CGS, it's measured in dynes (1dyne=1g*1cm/s/s). If you think about it, objects weighing in the neighborhood of a kilo are more likely to be accelerating at m/s/s, and conversely with smaller items, at least when we're learning classical mechanics. So from a dimensions view, they kind of go together.

Anyway, if we rejiggered this, tons of other units like Teslas, Coulombs, Henrys, they all depend on the MKS system, so that would be a gigantic hassle.. What's wrong with the mol?. [It looks better without the mol.](https://imgur.com/a/bUEShE1). It’s Δν (delta nu), the hyperfine transition frequency of caesium-133. It is two Greek letters delta ∆ and nu ν. In physics, delta often means change or difference and nu frequency. Here it refers to the unperturbed ground state hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium 133 atom. Second is defined so that the frequency is exactly 9 192 631 770 Hz.

Source: [https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/rev-si/](https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/rev-si/). The ground state hyperfine splitting frequency of the caesium-133 atom Δν(133Cs)hfs is exactly 9192631770 hertz (Hz)                 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redefinition_of_SI_base_units. I would also like to know.

The second is defined by a number of transitions in a caesium atom... I guess ∆v might be the symbol for the change in energy level or something? I don't get it. Usually it means change in velocity, which seems unrelated.. In a general sense, it is the change in velocity.

With respect to this instance, it is referring to the change in the wavelength of a photon that is emitted by an electron as it changes energy levels during a transition in the hyperfine splitting in the ground state for a Caesuem 133 atom. . [deleted]. change in velocity.  Delta V.

E: [at -12 karma] It was a dumb joke, I know it's not speed [& i know speed isn't defined as delta-v].  I apologise for the comment, it isn't a good idea to give purposefully incorrect answers to innocent questions on a science sub - it's misleading and causes disruption.  I'll leave my post up for my own karma punishment.

for something more useful to the conversation, check out this (now, semi out-dated) vid from Veritasium - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZMByI4s-D-Y

It's a couple of years old but deals with how the kg was previously defined and he speculates that in the near future, it will be redefined almost exactly how it actually ended up being.

u/sk07ch, I apologise.  I hope the vid is of use to you.

for anyone interested in this level of physics, check out:

https://www.thegreatcoursesplus.com/physics-and-our-universe

you can get a free 1 month trial - you are needed to enter card details but as long as you cancel within 28 days (set a reminder on your phone for 25, 26 and 27 days and you wont forget) you won't get charged.  I've done this myself.  A few weeks later I re-signed up because they have some amazing courses.  I don't work for them btw, i work in a bank so this isn't a plug, I'm just the most downvoted person here so may as well make use of the curiosity readers.  

Again, sorry for the nonconstructive initial comment.. Imperial stays defined through metric, right?. The US scientific community has been using SI the whole time. The US took part in this standardization. Care to explain how this is something America takes?. Lol, we built the new kilogram. Through E = mc^2 and E = hv (h is Plank’s constant and v is frequency of the quantum particle, like a photon)

hv = mc^2

hv/c^2 = m

And there you go. Mass defined as a relationship between constants.

Note that we’re not getting a specific “number” for how big a kilogram is. We’re getting a mathematical relationship that will be consistent so long as our algebra and formulas are correct.

Through this algebra, we can accurately calculate how many kg any object is relative to those fundamental constants.. It looks like they're fixing the Planck constant to always be equal to 6.62607015 × 10^-34 kg x m^2 / s. So if you can find the Planck constant, you can derive the exact mass of one kg.. Not really. They're kept locked down pretty tight, and they have multiple copies. . Would it though? You have everything calibrated to it, just take a rock use those calibrated devices to chip off enough material so that it's 1kg exactly. Or don't, because nothing is *actually* calibrated with respect to that weight in practice.. This might be a dumb question, but don't commonly used measurements carry implicit meaning as well? Even if the 1kg object that defines the kilogram were to break, it's not like people will forget how much a kilogram is overnight.

What specifically would happen if the master 1kg object were to break?. Oscillations of an atom of cesium under specific conditions. This same principle is used for atomic clocks like the ones used in gps satellites. AFAIK . DOWN WITH THE CANDELA BOURGEOISIE!. The candela is still in?!? Boo!. The constant e is the fundamental charge. The charge of an electron for example is -e. Even though the total energy of the electron changes as a function of its momentum, the charge does not.. 100% of all date systems are going to be arbitrary in some way. Just pick one and stick with it.. No. It's just a redefinition. They're still identical. The SI is weird. You mean like a meter or a gram??. The US defines its measurements in terms of metric. The yard is defined in terms of the meter, the pound in terms of the kilogram, and so on.. A furlong is 1/8th of a mile.

Edit: [link for the lazy downvoters](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Furlong?wprov=sfla1). They are. I don't think your value for k is correct in SI. It's most generally k=1/(4πε_0), and ε_0 appears not to be fixed even by the new definitions.. I got you, fam...

https://youtu.be/Oo0jm1PPRuo. Oh great now when I say I will be ready in just 10 seconds my girl can just pull out the trusty block of cesium and decide that. >cesium ... decay rate

Actually, it's slightly more nuanced than that.

The sole electron in its outermost electron shell switches between two energy states in a very very *very* regular period, and we can measure it with lasers and some fancy science stuff.  The second is defined as a particular number of cycles of state transitions for that electron.  It has nothing to do with decay rates.. But wait, doesn't the decay rate depend on the local gravitational field? doesn't relativity say that clocks tick at different rates depending on how far away they are from massive bodies? If you have a caesium clock o Mt Everest it will tick differently to one at sea level?. I'm intrigued that you mention the second and the metre - two of the base units whose definitions haven't  changed (other than minor wording alterations). Surely discussing the units whose definitions have been fundamentally revised would be more appropriate?. > This decay rate can never ever change and is an intrinsic property of the chemical

Is this proven or just assumed?. > The speed of light will never change (ever, for any observer, moving any speed).

Doesn't this smack of hubris? I get that we're pretty sure the speed of light is a constant, but "never change (ever...)"? No new innovations will emerge in physics? The way we conceptualize "light" and "speed" will never, ever be revised in light of new knowledge? . Kinda like the KG weight in Paris?. now that was simple to understand. The problem is reference. How long is a meter? Oh that's easy. 1000 liters of water in a cube is a cubic meter. Okay, how much is a litre? It's a kilogram of water. Sigh. Fine. What is a kilogram? Oh it's this block of metal we arbitrarily defined as 1 kilogram and if we ever lose it we'll be screwed.

The goal here is to be able to, from scratch, recreate our system of measurement, acurately. Something we could not do before this.

Welcome to 2018.. Thanks for explaining the joke. It's a bit late to do that. The definitions of so many units are based on the kg, and changing it to g would screw with them.

E.g. Joules are defined as kg\*m^(2)*s^(-2). Changing kg to g would mean all measurements of energy would need to be updated to be 1000 times greater. Now imagine this change occurring for every unit with kg in it. Now realize just how much that would mess with every single reference text. It would just be an absolute nightmare to deal with.. The kg turns out to be more convenient on a human scale.  . Kilogram is used far more would be my guess.. I really can’t imagine that’s a huge problem. . Hm? I'm not suggesting changing anything but the naming scheme of the mass series of units. Everything would continue to be defines via the same units, just  that the kilogram wouldn't be called "kilogram" anymore but something else without a kilo- in front of it. It's a dimensionless quantity. Very devisive and not wholly supported. Its like making % an SI.

Just wanna clarify, I don't hate the mole (at least not a lot), I just don't think it deserves to be an SI. ^(Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image)

**https://i.imgur.com/YlXaZnx.jpg**

^^[Source](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot) ^^| ^^[Why?](https://github.com/AUTplayed/imguralbumbot/blob/master/README.md) ^^| ^^[Creator](https://np.reddit.com/user/AUTplayed/) ^^| ^^[ignoreme](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=ignoreme&message=ignoreme) ^^| ^^[deletthis](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=imguralbumbot&subject=delet%20this&message=delet%20this%20e9ul8q6) . Why is the delta used then? What “change” of frequency is this referring to? I just thought it’s a specific amount of periods of a wave of a certain frequency. Thanks for the detailed reply. Couldn't come of with v quickly.. Thanks. I never came across the hyperfine splitting frequency of the caesium-133 atom before.. **Redefinition of SI base units**

In 2018 the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) has proposed:23 revised definitions of the SI base units, for consideration at the 26th General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM).  The formal vote, which took place on 16 November 2018, was unanimously in favour.  The new definitions will come into force on 20 May 2019.The metric system was originally conceived as a system of measurement that was derivable from unchanging phenomena. However, when the metric system was first introduced in France in 1799, technical limitations necessitated the use of  artefacts (the prototype metre and prototype kilogram) instead.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. It's a greek nu, not a v, and it represents frequency in this case. . Velocity is usually denoted by the Latin letter *v*, whereas the Greek *ν* is used for frequency.. >In a general sense, it is the change in velocity.

Aye. 

The second part of your answer is nicely explained. Cheers!. .... That's not a V. Sure, the original commenter wrote a V, but if you scroll down further you will know that's nu..  First, the USA has never used the Imperial system. It uses US Customary Units which have been derived from the metric system since 1893. The metric system has been legal for trade in the USA since 1866.

 Second, the British Imperial System had nothing to do with body parts.

 The US military use metric units extensively: this started a hundred years ago. The medical and pharmaceutical industries use metric units exclusively. Packaged goods are nearly always labeled in both customary and metric units. What the USA hasn't done (and is what the critics really want) is outlaw the use of the customary system.

I think that the reason that the USA didn't switch early is that it had a coherent, standardized, national system unlike countries such as France which had hundreds of incompatible, conflicting units being used in different regions and in different trades.

. [deleted]. Just a friendly reminder, imperial is not US customary. Imperial isn't really defined by anything. They are arbitrary units of measurement based on body parts. For instance a yard is based on the distance from your nose to your thumb. Not all of it though. Some people still use cgs, and astronomers mostly use their own units like parsecs, magnitudes, and solar masses

Edit: why you booing I'm right?. They probably think that the imperial unit system is based on lengths of various body parts. What they don’t realize is that the imperial units have been based on metric units since the 1800s. . My only issue with this whole move is that they got a "better" measurement for the Planck constant, but this seems to leave room for future even better measurements of it to change stuff going forward.. [deleted]. > so that it's 1kg exactly.

You caught yourself right here, actually! Everything is based off of that particular object, and obviously the universe isn't going to explode if it splits in half, but if we're already confident enough to "chip off enough" of the literal standard to match what it "should" be, then the standard is misnamed.

Which is exactly why the scientific community has agreed to use universal constants as standards in lieu of fallible physical objects.. There are (were) several different standard 1kg weights around the world. The problem is their masses have become divergent from each other, so we know it changes over time. That degree of uncertainty doesn't make for a good standard.

It's not about forgetting the definition of a kg, it's about not knowing what a kg *means*, or how to know what weights 1kg.. Looks like it, less I'm more misinformed than usual.

How are they getting that standardized human eye nowadays?  Do they keep it in a pickle jar?. kilogram is a base unit but fails to be prefix-less. [deleted]. Much appreciated!!. r/nocontext. [removed]. Relatively, yes. But for that cesium atom, in its reference frame, it's a constant.. All time is relative and all clocks depend on the reference frame. So if you're standing right next to a cesium atom it doesn't matter where you are, your clocks will be ticking at the same rate.

The funny thing is your comment is 100% accurate. But it's such an unintuitive concept that, even though you got it right, you ended up with the wrong conclusion! The problem you bring up is only a problem if there's such a thing as absolute time, in which case differing reference frames would cause an issue. But since there's no such thing as absolute time, and everything is considered in terms of their reference frame, it turns out to be a non-issue.. It hasn't been proven or assumed :( 
As far as physicists have tested, it just seems so. To explain, a specific isotope of an element, such as Cesium - 133 has an intrinsic and seemingly never changing atomic transition frequency and linedwidth (aka decay rate, inversely aka state lifetime). These transitions can be formulated by the standard model and are fixed according to it. 
However, the interaction of elementary parricles, described by a value called the fine structure constant has been hypothesized to drift slowly through time. All measurements as of yet of this drift have been shown to be 0 (within uncertainty).  This is why it is fine to say these transitions are fixed.

In reality, what we face in measuring these transitions are unwanted effects of linebroadening and shifts in the transition due to external factors such as: magnetic field (Zeeman shifts), heating of the atom (line broadening) and laser intensity on the ion (AC-Stark shift). Each can effect the transition. These are all accounted for by the person measuring the transition.. [removed]. I mean, as surely as saying "you will never, ever grow organic wings" is hubris, sure. There's possibly something that would cause it to happen, but it would be such a fundamentally gamechanging and unforeseeable ball out of left field that hedging toward it is pointless.

Keep in mind "the speed of light" is shorthand for a phrase that includes "in a vacuum". . The speed of light is currently the fundamental backbone that physics rests on. Asking if the speed of light is going to change is *almost* like asking if the axioms of mathematics are going to change.. Think of  "A equals A". We all agree this will always be true. Always.

Of course we can theorize that something could happen that will make this not true. But as far as we know, or can imagine, it's impossible. And if it does happen, pretty much all conclusions we've ever made and all science we've ever devised will be broken. 

Same with the speed of light. So much is based on it being constant, that changing that would pretty much mean we're not in the same Universe anymore. The etalon of meter will be the least of our worries then.. Yes exactly like that, I just used the metre as an example.. But what if we just call the kilogramme gramme and the gramme milligrame and so on?. If I understand OP correctly, their argument is that what we currently call a kilogram should have been named a gram, and what we currently call a gram should have been named a milligram. . It was the other way around, the kg (grave) was initially defined as the weight of 1 L of water (1cm^3) but was bigger than a lot of the things people actually weighed, so therefore they made the gram 1/1000 grave (kg), but they still defined the unit in terms of kg partially because it was easier to make a good prototype kg than a g. . But it’s an inconsistency, which is something science usually tries to avoid. It is for books and things like engineered designs. What's a newton divided by [a meter per second squared]?

Now, what's a kilonewton divided by [a meter per second squared]?  (Or a millinewton divided by [a kilometer per second squared]?)

What's a meganewton divided by [a meter per second squared]?

Et cetera. Well, as unit problems go it's not so bad -- we could be using factors of 12 or 5280 in our unit system, for example -- but it's still a wart left over from the earlier CGS version of the system.  I'd rather see "kg" replaced with some new word (the "bob") with a conversion factor of 1.00000 to the old units.  That sort of thing has already been done -- but unfortunately the "tonne" overshoots -- moving to millitonnes just gives you the same problem in the other direction.. There is a requirement in chemistry to convert between quantities and masses, though. . It's a transition from one state to another, and the emitted radiation is at the same frequency as the difference between the frequencies of the two states (their energy divided by Planck's constant).. I am quite aware.

On my phone, with my age withered eyes, nu, and v look almost identical.. [Or it's upside down and it means Earth has changed coordinates.](https://youtu.be/n3ihWxPL5eA?t=69) ?. > The US military use metric units extensively: this started a hundred years ago. The medical and pharmaceutical industries use metric units exclusively. Packaged goods are nearly always labeled in both customary and metric units. What the USA hasn't done (and is what the critics really want) is outlaw the use of the customary system.

I disagree. I'm a critic and there are loads of places the government could switch to featuring metric more prominently than customary without outlawing the customary system. Drivers licenses have height in inches and weight in pounds, as do the tools on choosemyplate.gov. weather.gov reports temperature in Fahrenheit, winds speed in mph, and precipitation in inches. TSA liquid restrictions are in fluid ounces and quarts, as are CDC alcohol guidelines. FAA drone regulations. National Park Service park descriptions. Census population density. Pick basically any government website and click through until you find a unit, and 98% of the time you'll find a customary unit before a metric one.

EDIT: I'm sure some of these things are metric internally, but what matters for adoption is how they're communicated to the public.. Outside of scientific, military, and trade application I also don't really see the point of changing all of our road signs and such to kilometers. The population likes miles, we're familiar with it, and its not really hurting anyone.. [deleted]. > The medical and pharmaceutical 

My guidewires were in thou's for manufacturing. . > First, the USA has never used the Imperial system.

This is semantics - US Customary and Imperial are almost indistinguishable from each other. 

> what the critics really want

I don't think this is true. What "critics", i.e. metric advocates, want, is to encourage transformation to metric. For example, I do not like having to compare pre-packaged nuts with $/oz prices to loose nuts with $/pound prices. Having both be in grams, or 100-grams, or kilograms, or anything base-10 would be so much better.

How to do this encouragement, I don't really know. I'm not a fan of making a system of measurements illegal, and as long as the customers prefer the current system (which everyone always does, regardless of any objective goodness), any business does not have the incentive to be the first one. 

> Second, the British Imperial System had nothing to do with body parts.

Finally, this is just plain false. Feet, and many other measures of length, were absolutely originally based on body parts. There's nothing wrong with that, it's a great first-order approximation for a set of measurements that makes sense. Again, whether something is currently defined as a length of a medieval foot, or in centimeters with the amount that exactly corresponds to the length of a medieval foot, it just semantics.. I thought it also had something to do with passing the metric ruling at the national level but not forcing it upon the states. But I'm not too sure as I don't live there, but I do work a lot with US engineering companies and it's a pain in the arse.. Woo!  I came here to say this and you beat me to it.. >(and is what the critics really want) is outlaw the use of the customary system.

Nah, just to make Metric the default, rather than an option. ie; everything must have Metric labelling, & you can include Imperial/Customary/etc on the label as well if you want. This is how it's done in other countries that're officially Metric, but have a long, cherished tradition of other systems.. Not that that’s related to his question, really. . It definitely does change, just a tiny bit.  . That used to be the case. [Now it is defined using SI units. ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_yard_and_pound) . Who's nose and thumb?. I don't get why astronomers use cgs specifically, that's a field that should have it's own unique, bigger units, but this whole idea of having standardized measurements is stupid as hell. Why should I not use cgs? That's the order of magnitude everything I work with is in anyway, and why should that mean the guy who works with everything in SI scales needs to use cgs as well?. Those are due to tradition and they aren't limited to American astronomers. Meaning they're extra-stupid.. It still doesn’t make sense, since this is just an internal change in SI. But ultimately, I think it was just a joke. . Commenters in /r/physics who don't understand science, you don't say . . Actually, I think the copies are the legal reference in their respective countries. For instance, last year I visited the National Physical Laboratory in London (UK), and there we saw \*the\* British kilogram. By law, every single weight measurement device built in the UK has to be directly or indirectly calibrated against \*the\* British kilogram. Of course, British kilogram is then regularly compared to its counterparts for reference, but as legal matters within the country go, it is the British one, and not the other ones, which calls the shots.

Funny piece of trivia: even though in the UK pounds and stones are still very common units of weight, the NPL doesn't certify official stones or pounds any more: whenever someone wants to certify their pound, what the NPL actually verifies is that it weighs 0.453592 kg :-D. No no I mean, if the standard were to break then bring in another rock and weigh it with a scale that was callibrated with the standard. Now that I think of it you wouldn't need to chip off anything: just record the weight that the callibrated thing told you, now you've got a 1.3263678kg standard! If you trust that the scale did not loose it's callibration (which is necessary for units to be of any use in practice), then you should trust that that rock weighs exactly 1.3263678 times what the old standard weighed.


Although it's good to use actual physical constants to define units, I agree!. Meter is prefix-less. Makes no sense. What is the advantage here? The unit that starts without prefix? Thats why they change things to be more intuitive and have between a cubic cm and cubic meter of water, a liter, one 1000 in between.

It is all arbitrary and prefixes are a goddam genius thing. Not sure what the deal with this comment is.... [deleted]. excellent points! thank you
. [removed]. Mathematical axioms are entirely arbitary and can be changed on a whim.. That would be _really_ confusing, especially considering no one can go back and edit all the pre-reform books, so you’d always have to check when it was written (and, for newer books, probably how old the author was…). 

Much less of a hassle wuold be to make a new word and rename the kilogram to that. I’ve seen “grave” thrown around, my personal (entirely and absolutely serious) suggestion is “splork”.. The original unit was the gram (or gramme).  It just turned out that kilograms are easier to measure and manipulate. . 1. A kilogram
2. 1E3 Kilograms
3. 1E6 Kilograms.

What is your suggestion of a different system? Prefixes are for convenient speech not calculations. Everything is logical and seems to be the best way to do it to me. What ya got?. But you could always just use 1 as the quantity. Not denying that. Just think it being an SI is questionable.. What do you mean with "the frequency of a state"? The frequency of a photon which would be emitted when transitioning from said state to the ground state? It's not really a difference in frequencies as it is the difference in energies divided by the plank's constant(as you mentioned). It wouldn't really make sense physically to talk about the difference in frequencies.. I'd like to see the Federal government start consistently showing both and then gradually start listing the metric value first and then making the metric unit the whole one (that is, show "1/2 kg (1.10 lb)" rather than "1.0 lb (.45 kg)").

IIRC there is an existing Federal law that says they are supposed  to be doing that.. I think thats a different argument. He said the military uses it not the whole government. Sure the gov could use it more prominently but that wasn't his point at all.. Which is more important? A simple, easy to understand way to control a diet for a more healthy lifestyle or unit snobbery? Choosemyplate is the LAST place to enforce unit change.. TSA limit is 100ml (3.3oz).. In canada, we switched to metric in 1971. My mother and people her age lament on how tough the change was to get used to. Boomers and gen x'ers use both, but millenials and younger are in tune with metric. 

I'm in this weird place where i know metric very well, but my father in construction used imperial exclusively and as a construction electrician myself, i still have to convert imperial most measurements.

I know both systems pretty intuitively at this point and metric is *infinitely* easier to scale. Multiply or divide by 10. That's literally it.

None of this 12in to a foot, 3 feet to a yard, 5280 feet to a mile bullshit. Ten, ten, ten.

Yes it will be a hard change, but if every entity/organization that engages in important work is using metric, the desire to continue using imperial for the masses is, respectfully, very silly. . It has hurt people in the past. An Air Canada jet was filled with less fuel than it should've had when the gallons to L conversion became messed up. The only reason it didn't crash was because of amazing piloting to glide the plane down to the tarmac. . I’d also like to just throw out there that the sign switching wouldn’t cost as much as it might seem at first. We could make stickers that we could add to the signs. Also, it’s not going to matter when self driving cars take over the roads.. The point is that the switching cost is less than the cost of continuing to use an inferior system indefinitely. . The benefit is mostly when traveling and trading, but I don't think it justifies the cost of a full transition to metric. . I'm in favor of making the metric system more prominent by putting metric units in road signs in addtion to customary ones, putting them in forecasts and reports issued by the weather service, etc.  What I don't want to see (and see no possibility of) is a Canadian or Australian style forced conversion.

Personally I'm comfortable with both systems.  Customary is more intuitive for me but that's just because I currently use it more. . I might be misrembering here, but I believe a few states did put up road signs with MPH and KPH, distances in miles and kilometers, etc., back in the 70s when we in the USA were supposed to be converting.. And honestly, 1 degree F is a much better delta unit than 1 degree C. And 100F is a much better top end than 100C.

I will accept some points about 32/0 though.. You are high.. I read a book once that said having the imperial system could be a good thing: people who are driven will succeed, and having to learn the metric system is just more practice with unit conversion, and making those connections in your head.  
Never bad to have more practice.  
  
It does hinder some people who may have succeeded in science, otherwise, though, but it’s really low-effort to convert, so if they’re not willing to put in a small effort, maybe they were doomed to fail.. Since the metric system is already fully legal for trade and has been for over 150 years what could you possibly mean other than outlawing the customary system?. Usually because you have more accuracy in thousandths of an inch than in millimeter.. I don't mean rational metric advocates (of which I'm one).  I mean those who make hostile/contemptuous/angry remarks about how the USA "has to get rid of its retarded imperial system" and similar.


The British Imperial System was created by act of Parliament.  It has no connection with body parts other than the remote one of the name of one unit.

The USA *is* gradually shifting toward metric.  I can see the general trend over the last fifty years or so.  I think computers will make the question moot before the process goes to completion, though.. >This is semantics-  US Customary and Imperial are almost indistinguishable from each other.

Not at all. An imperial pint is 1.2 customary pints.

>For example, I do not like having to compare pre-packaged nuts with $/oz prices to loose nuts with $/pound prices. 

That really wouldn't change. The inconsistency is the grocery store being shitty and trying to scalp you. They'd use some stupid conflicting unit if everything was in grams.

Plus, the conversion that's actually going to happen is already happening. Recipes use customary volumes, but you're generally buying 2 liter cokes, liter water bottles, etc.. **International yard and pound**

The international yard and pound are two units of measurement that were the subject of an agreement among representatives of six nations signed on 1 July 1959, namely the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. The agreement defined the yard as exactly 0.9144 meters and the pound as exactly 0.45359237 kilograms.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. So basically just continue to use your nose and thumb. Some people are nosier than others.. You're joking right?  . https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/9xlsig/its_official_the_science_community_has_voted_all/e9u7e8m/?context=1. Not only will gravity slow down the cesium decay, it slows down literally everything nearby. It still serves as a good clock. There is no clock that is constant at all relativistic points in space. That would break what we know about clocks and space time. . Yes, the OP is technically correct. But they drew the wrong conclusion. There is no such thing as absolute time, so even though the passage of time *does* depend on the reference frame, that's a universal reality and ultimately a non-issue. It's ok for my second to be slightly different from your second. Just how the universe works.. But a second will be different for people in different moving reference frames anyways. And they would get the value they expect from time dilation if they measured a second in the other ref frame. His assertion only applies to an observer observing a cesium atom from a location with a different gravitational potential. In that case, I would hope the observer would know that and account for it.

Any measurement on Earth is probably going to happen within a few feet of the cesium so I don't see why his situation matters *at all* but I guess we could entertain some wild hypothetical. What do you mean changed? Like anyone can just go change them? I'm pretty sure they would always need to lead to consistent logic and algebra, so it's not like we can just make them whatever we want.

Unless you're going to say that "truth is relative" or some psuedo-intellectual hippie bullshit.. *holds up splork*. How about we call the kilogram the *kilo* and the gram the millikilo (and the megagram the kilokilo)?. So it's settled then. We have to destroy all civilization as we know it and start over properly this time.. eh that's difficult to pronounce, the "spl" consonant cluster will be a pain in the ass. A prefix-less unit multiplied or divided by another set of prefix-less units should have a prefix-less result.

In other words, the prefix of the result should be *independent of the input base units and depend on the input base prefixes only*.

1 A / (1 B * 1 C^2) ---> 1 D, but instead because of this kilogram thing, we get 1 A / (1 B * 1 C^2) ---> 1000 D. Makes no sense. The answers *should* be, in order: 1. A basemass 2. A kilobasemass, and 3. A megabasemass, instead of, as you said, 1. kilomass 2. kilokilomass? or is that megamass?? 3. megakilomass??? or is that gigamass???. That would create impractically large numbers that do not convert nicely with proton/neutron masses . [deleted]. Sorry, I reread his post and I don't see where you're getting that. I'm willing to be corrected, but it honestly sounds like you're misreading IMHO.

To me his point definitely sounds like "the US already uses metric in many instances, including the military, pharmaceuticals, and packaging. The only thing left they could do is outlaw customary." i.e. the military was just one of several examples.

> What the USA hasn't done (and is what the critics really want) is outlaw the use of the customary system.

If "the USA" really means the US military here, who are these critics who care so much about what units the US military specifically uses? Nobody else in this post mentioned the military until he did. And why bother mentioning packaged goods?. Per item, although you'll note that the website lists it as "3.4oz (100ml)", and [lots of placards will just say 3oz](https://i.ytimg.com/vi/09QberxAwqI/maxresdefault.jpg). How big can the bag be that you put them in?. I mean, I largely agree. I’m just saying that for most use cases, exact conversions aren’t important. What’s useful about imperial in the US currently is that everyone has an intuitive feel for how far 1 mile is, or how much 1 pound is, and so on. The majority of the population is not doing conversions to find out how many feet are in 2.65 miles or what have you. Of corse, as you point out, this would change within a generation or two after a switch to metric. But I generally don’t buy into the notion that imperial is prohibitively hard for most of the population, because it isn’t. In fields where conversions and such matter, they’re using metric anyway.. >I'm in this weird place where i know metric very well, but my father in construction used imperial exclusively and as a construction electrician myself, i still have to convert imperial most measurements.

Aussie Gen X guy here, & you are basically me on this.. The Gimli glider was the exception, not the norm. If it happened all the time, then sure, but one incident (or even a few) are not enough to justify a monumental change.. My hometown airport added Celsius to the weather sign as you drive in, and people were outraged. Basically the "you're in America speak English" crowd turned into "you're in America learn Fahrenheit". >is a Canadian or Australian style forced conversion.

Aussie here who was a kid when we switched over. The ban on Imperial measurements was a temporary measure to rip the bandaid off & get the conversion over with at the time. It became legal again to include Imperial measurements on things not long afterwards, & today, if you want to, you can buy rulers with inch markings, & pints (in different sizes in varying states, even) if you want to.. > And honestly, 1 degree F is a much better delta unit than 1 degree C. And 100F is a much better top end than 100C.

This comes up occasionally, and I don't see a lot of truth in either. For any accurate deltas you need decimals anyway, and at that point the base size of your unit doesn't matter in any way. 

I've also never understood why people think 100F (or 0F) is particularly good. I think it's really weird - it corresponds to "a really hot day but sometimes it gets even hotter". Similarly, 0F is "a really cold day, but sometimes it gets colder". I do agree that 0-100C isn't super useful as far as outside temperatures go, and I argue neither is 0-100F. For any calculations of any sort (say, how long it takes to boil a pot of tea with a given wattage and a given volume of water of a given initial temperature), I think it's fair to say C/K will be much easier, and I just really like the symmetry of 0 as the divider between freezing and not freezing.. Dude, what are you talking about.  Besides for science and military, there is absolutely 0 fucking difference between 1 mile and 1.7 km (whatever the conversion is).  I seriously fail to see the necessity of switching every road sign.  I’d rather have some bridges and roads fixed than have them replace every sign to km.  Especially since everyone would have to readjust a little bit, it seems pointless to waste money on.  . No one really converts though, you just use metric. I work in QC/manufacturing and we just always use kg.. Was the book titled How to Create Unnecessary and Pointless Obstacles to Waste People’s Time and Effort? Whoever wrote that book needs to read Your App is Making Me Fat.. [deleted]. That's a pretty dumb thing to say to be honest. 1.234 mm is more accurate than 0.049" You just slap on decimals till your precision is needed?. > Not at all. An imperial pint is 1.2 customary pints.

It's slightly misleading to say "not at all" and cherry-pick the one measurement that is farthest from being the same (Imperial pint to US liquid pint). Also, I have literally never seen a pint being used as a measure during the 3.5 years I've lived in the US. Also also, 1 Imperial pint is about 1.032 US dry pints.

Likewise, dry fluid ounce, for example, is only 4% different. Don't ask me why US has separate dry and liquid volume measurements or how to differentiate between them. 

Some other common comparisons

1 US inch = 1 Imperial inch

1 US foot = 1 Imperial foot

1 US yard = 1 Imperial yard

1 US mile = 1 Imperial mile

1 US pound = 1 Imperial pound


I conclude that my earlier claim that they are "virtually indistinguishable" is accurate. Most measurements are either exactly the same or within 5% of each other. You get larger differences if you start comparing combined dry/weight volume units (Imperial) to dedicated liquid volume units.

> That really wouldn't change. The inconsistency is the grocery store being shitty and trying to scalp you. They'd use some stupid conflicting unit if everything was in grams.

This is something where a law really would help. For example, in Finland every food product (I don't know the exact definition here) will have to be given both the price and nutritional information per 100 grams. This makes comparing everything completely trivial, and it makes both price-conscious and health-conscious shopping so much easier.. They shouldn't be booing, but those field-specific units are defined using SI units.

For instance, a parsec is defined based on an AU, which is defined in SI meters, which are defined by the distance light travels in a fraction of an SI second, which is fundamentally defined by counting the fluctuations of a certain kind of cesium radiation.. Meaning you are free to use any axioms or postulates you wish. Not all will produce something useful, but there is no set of axioms that is fundamental in any sense.. Oh no you don't.... I had a seizure reading this thanks. Ok. Im down. Isn't this phase factor physically meaningless though? Since all physical quantities are calculated in terms of the product of the wave function and its complex conjugate, this phase factor always cancels out?. > What’s useful about imperial in the US currently is that everyone has an intuitive feel for how far 1 mile is, or how much 1 pound is, and so on.

Yes - there is clearly a local optimum. It doesn't mean it wouldn't be possible to improve, however. In the end it's a question of short-term optimization vs long-term optimization.

There's nothing hard about imperial - like you said, people who use them do develop an intuition on them. Still, I don't see how there is any advantage in this system vs metric, whereas there are some (arguably not incredibly serious) disadvantages, such as the difficulty in conversions. 

Another perspective is that US military and NASA will likely never switch from metric. Why not standardize it so that everyone uses the same system, instead of there being two, mutually redundant systems?. Every other country that used to use imperial had that same question of familiarity and they all chose to change anyway. None have elected to chance back. . That's only because people are familiar with it but people can change and learn. 

&#x200B;

This is like becoming content with living in a burning house while a beautiful mansion is waiting for you on the other side of the street but you still insist on resisting because you got used to the warmth of the fire. . >but one incident (or even a few) are not enough to justify a monumental change.

It's not that big a change, & yes they are a good enough reason.. Sure, but when are those morons ever *not* outraged over something stupid?. Fahrenheit is better for weather. It’s at a human scale, 100 is very hot and 0 is very cold. . 0-100C makes no sense for most people. 100C is the max for water, but only at standard sea level pressure, so it usually won't reach that. And why would anyone in the  world actually care about 100 being the boiling point of water? What becomes easier because of that? Just remembering two numbers that everyone knows anyway? 0-100F seems useful for judging how hot or cold it is outside, at least. Neither one is perfect and neither one is really good for science.. Really, none. But switching would be a pain in the ass *once* and for America only. On the other hand, not switching is an ongoing pain in the ass for everyone. Thus, total amount of pain in the ass can be minimised by switching ASAP.. [deleted]. You're making it sound like putting up a sign is incredibly difficult and prohibitively expensive. Neither are true.. It’s extra unit conversions that engineers have to deal with, which only the US and a few other countries use and require their kids to learn. The metric system is extremely intuitive and easy to learn.

I guess if you don’t deal with scientific/engineering applications, it probably makes no difference to you. If it’s all the same then why not just choose one to work with so that everyone is on the same page?

I’ve honestly never met someone who wants to keep the mile, so I’d love to learn more about you and these down voters and what you guys do for society involving dimensional analysis.. I convert frequently.  It's a minor inconvenience.. Sure, but if you use pounds in your daily life, and kg in your work-life, you probably know about how much something weighs in both of and lbs, instinctively, at this point. This is a pretty big deal. You should spend a lot of energy telling me why the book is wrong.  
I just thought it was an interesting outlook.. > The thought of making a system illegal is laughable in the best of times

Systems other than US Customary and SI are already not legal for trade in the USA: you are not permitted to sell gasoline by the Imperial gallon or meat by the livre de Paris.  As far as I know the US Customary system is not legal for trade in any country that is offically metric other than the USA.

What could 
> taking a generation to use both systems, then using metric thereafter.

mean other than making the customary system not legal for trade, since we are already using both systems?. >emphasize teaching it in school (in tandem with our current system for 20 years, then exclusively thereafter)

So basically teach it exactly the way that it's already taught?. Sorry, I had just woken up. I meant precision. It is literally why things like PCB's are designed with mils instead of mm.. Here is a link to the common standard units that shows the variances between them:

https://www.exploratorium.edu/cooking/convert/index.html. Imperial units are defined based on metric too though. lol…as u can see im very random!!!! . Hi down, I'm dad!. No phase differences are what lead to interference phenomenon, it's common to state a global phase of your quantum system is meaningless, and this is true as long as your system is correctly defined. If it interacts with another system of a different phase you get interference . I mean, I prefer metric, but wow--- hyperbole much?. If you think spending hundreds of billions of dollars to make the change is "not that big", you're insane. And no, one outlier isn't a good reason to do pretty much anything, let alone something as big as this.. My counter to that is at 0C the beer on the back deck might freeze and I should bring it in and 40C is fucking hot. We hit +- 50C and it is pretty much lethal unless you take extreme precautions.. I mean, I have a pretty good clue for how warm or cold it is outside if the weather forecast shows -5°C or 25°C. Celsius doesn't ruin that intuition. I really don't think it's any point in arguing what fits best for humans because we learn to adapt anyway, and for calculations and stuff you know what you're doing anyway to not get lost in units. 

What I consider the best argument is that it would just be much easier if everybody used the same system so that nobody would need to discuss this at all. So basically, consistency would be nice thanks.. This is a good argument since it’s something I agree with, but I would still counter that it’s not an incentive for the US government, and apparently not even an incentive for citizens.  No corporations or individuals have lobbied for metric (I could be wrong, but I’ve never seen anything), and there would probably be a large uproar from people who want to resist change.  

So while I really agree that we should change, it just doesn’t seem practical by any means due to the government system.  I’m not saying your reasoning isn’t practical; it certainly is, but when you look at the way laws change (is that a law?), it’s through Congress.  Could we make these points to congress? Sure, but it doesn’t seem like this is economically motivated enough. Perhaps I am just missing those parts of the argument, so if I am, it really makes me question why no one has tried to profit off of the switch.  Even foreign governments or corporations could make a deal with America if they would make money from the US switching.  No one seems to think it would be helpful, so I’m not sure.  . Only a pain in the ass because Europeans can't seem to grok that customary really isn't hard so this conversation happens all the damn time.. I don’t know where you got any of that out of my post, but I’ve never seen any industry try to make a change.  You know very well companies don’t like losing money, so if they were severely impacted by the conversion then wouldn’t they try to change it?  I get that this logic is narrow minded, but are you just going to argue with people on the internet about it? Who is arguing to change the units? Absolutely no one is actually trying to make a full change. 

Where am I reducing Americans to working in customer service?  Also, how does a different unit system make it so no one can do home repairs?  I seriously understand that needing to use metric and imperial is frustrating, but if that is inhibiting you from being able to do a job, then I don’t see how you were going to do the job in the first place.  If you are missing metric tools because you have all imperial, yes it is frustrating, but I’ve always had a set of both types growing up.  I’m not arguing we shouldn’t switch, but I have no idea what you were trying to prove to me.. It’s not only signs though, and I doubt it would be very hard.  I just don’t see anyone wanting to change.  I could be wrong, but it seems like it’s never been brought up to congrsss. If you think that you can do science or engineering in a metric country without understanding how to convert units then you have been misinformed. . You guys essentially have the same argument for different populations. Yours being the STEM community and his being the general American population. I don't think he was arguing that it shouldn't be changed, more so pointing out that a change in system isn't needed at this moment. That those resources could be allocated into much more important areas like our outdated and failing infrastructure.    
The metric system is without a doubt intuitive, just in terms of economic efficiency, a nation wide movement away from the customary system is a very low priority for our leaders. We don't have our shit together so who can say when it, if ever, it will happen.. I’m currently in my third year as a physics major, i.e. I use the metric system every day.  Honestly I don’t have a feel for miles or km, and I’m not sure anyone truly does, but for driving I’m used to miles.  The readjustment of all the street signs would be strange- they either have to put signs at new locations, or replace the old ones and potentially deal with weird numbers.  My point is, I don’t see the benefit of driving with km rather than miles.  Yes, I dislike doing conversions to imperial, but that’s not enough to convince me that we need to switch the road signs.  However, it would probably be beneficial to switch sooner rather than later.. We already learn it in school and use it for almost all scientific applications. 

People using miles as a designate for the distance between cities doesn't hurt anyone and doesn't matter, we use metric for official documentation and measurements so what do customary signs matter?. Exactly. No need to convert.. [Educate yourself](https://seriouspony.com/blog/2013/7/24/your-app-makes-me-fat). Are micrometers insufficient?. >It is literally why things like PCB's are designed with mils instead of mm.

No, it's because they were invented in the US, & are traditionally based on a 0.1" grid for that reason, as are older through-hole component packages. In other countries, PCBs are done in Metric, but with really awkward & inconvenient work-arounds for those (fortunately) increasingly rare older packages.. Yep, which is why the original comment in this thread "Take that, USA!" was absurd.

We're you trying to say that the relative scaling of astronomical unit systems are as bad as inches, feet, yards, and miles? I don't know them well enough myself.. Not at all. Many people have died or suffered due to errors in the conversion between the two or mistaking one unit for another. [A $125 Million Mars Probe was destroyed due to such a mistake](http://articles.latimes.com/1999/oct/01/news/mn-17288). This all could have been avoided if we could all just agree on one system. . >spending hundreds of billions of dollars

lol, no. . Yeah, but equally it's also a pain for all the Americans who travel to Europe etc. Literally day one of my American Engineering education was unit conversions from imperial to metric and vice versa. Measurement and conversion are the most fundamental skill of our trade.. This is basically my argument - if imperial never existed, life would be life.  It would be a bit easier in some areas, and for some people, but governments can’t just flip a switch.  There needs to be people who support the movement (which is a lot of people), but the issue is there is not a movement to change it.  The leaders don’t care since no one is telling them to.  

While I don’t believe it is the right move to put things off in order to tackle bigger issues first, I can definitely see why it has to be that way for certain things.  If we had a bunch of corporations lobbying for metric, I think it would be implemented rather quickly.  The fact that only individuals want to change makes me think that it’s not worth anyone’s time, despite the benefits being apparent.  . > Honestly I don’t have a feel for miles...

I do.  I run one every day.

The sensible thing to do with road signs is to start putting both on them.

. Totally. I get to choose between mm and mils for increments though. Unfortunately, us Canadians and the rest of the world still have to deal with the US and their system of measurements. 

I also see a bunch of downvotes heading my way, likely because metric makes sense. And I agree. But I also realize that sometimes you have to adhere to certain constraints, such as Altium and other PCB design software. It gives the option to do things in mils or mm, so the step-size increments of constant integers of um would be ideal, it's not available. Between the two, I do what I can even if it is annoying.. NASA said it would cost it nearly half a billion for it to switch, and this is a relatively small organization that already largely operates in metric.. You’re a fucking genius m8. [deleted]. Even if it cost ONE billion dollars, it's not worth it. We have many more important things to worry about than pleasing the rest of the world's measurement preferences.. [deleted]. Ah yes, the other famous slogan of progress, "let's spend a bunch of money fixing a working system which isn't broken to begin with instead of fixing things that are actually broken like our healthcare"

If you want to have a serious conversation instead of making clever remarks, why not point out some issues you see with the US system and why switching would be beneficial to the US?. [deleted]. >"let's spend a bunch of money fixing a working system which isn't broken to begin with instead of fixing things that are actually broken like our healthcare"

America is more than rich enough to do both, plus numerous other expensive things that would benefit the 99%, if it stopped giving nearly all the money to the 1%, of at least toned it down a few notches.. Lol, so you don't give a shit what other people think, yet think of yourself as some enlightened genius who knows other people's exact intents. Yup, guess your just another troll on Reddit. Not gonna bother with you any more. If only there was a realistic way to get our power plants to produce way less CO2.... nan. Inconsistent colours between graphs, come on.. I'm colorblind lol. AAARGGH WHY AREN'T THEY THE SAME COLOUR. 

0/10 lab report.. This is right on the intersection between physics and politics.  It's worth keeping since nuclear physics is interesting and nuclear power's waste profile is a consequence of that.  But if it devolves into a political shouting match it will get deleted.  . Personally the fact tht paris accords didnt emphasize the importance of nuclear power made it pointless imo. Data source, please?. Whenever I hear some political news about "Entity X is going to be 100% renewable by time Y", I do often wonder what the key base-load technology is supposed to be. I think the quick answer is some vague promise that battery and storage technology will, like life, "find a way" to come down to a more manageable price point. And maybe they will, progress is certainly being made, but they're not even close to the price point they need to be at the moment (despite what a million technology articles say).

But, for example, I live in an EU country which is 100% anti-nuclear, they've literally never allowed a single plant to be built, and yet they're super proud of their renewable energy (and they should be), but they've got an energy portfolio that is a one-two punch of a strong emphasis on conservation (in general, energy-saving technology is WAY more omni-present and a cultural and policy focus in the EU relative to North America) and a healthy amount of hydro, (their intermittent sources are solar, wind)... and they also burn more fossil fuels than they like to admit. And that's great, energy policy is all about building a portfolio that is "least bad" against a landscape of competing wants, and thus no energy technology is perfect but hydro is certainly "less worse" than almost anything else out there. But for how many countries is hydro a valid base-load technology? 

If you're committed to whatever emission target and you don't live in a land of mountains and rivers, what's the plan?. Nuclear power scares people because it has the reputation as the silent killer.  Coal and petrol kill many many more orders of magnitude silently.  We should make a new nuclear powerplant every 10-15 years to keep the tech advancing.. As the op didn't care to cite the author.
Mr Neil Hirst 
Senior Policy Fellow for the Grantham Institute
Imperial college london 

The two graphs you see here are both from his book The energy conundrum. 

They are both taken from different sections. 

Please cite work before you try to karma farm . I need molten salt thorium reactorssss. Whoever was in charge of formatting this graph should be arrested.. We need laws to stop people from making color-mismatched plots. Do it for the children. . BuT nUcLeAr Is ScArY. Denmark doesn’t have a nuclear power plant... Well done Australia!. The problem with scaling up nuclear to power an energy-hungry world is that uranium ores are depleting.  Right now a typical nuclear plant emits about 10-15 gCO2e/kWh, but because we'll have to dig into lower-grade ores, at current rates of nuclear deployment it'll be about 60 gCO2e/kWh within a few decades. (1)  And of course ramping up nuclear to meet worldwide demand much more quickly would mean that we'd get to that 60g level within about a decade. 

Assuming energy use continues to grow as predicted, 60gCO2e/kWh would still blow us past any reasonable emissions targets within a very short timeframe.

The bottom line is that we have to use less energy, period.  We need to stop designing cities around cars.  No more square miles of nothing but single-family homes.  We also need to encourage culinary traditions that eat a helluva lot less meat, and discourage the prevailing corporate culture of sending employees on regular plane trips.  Otherwise there's just no way we'll be able to create a high standard of living for everyone.

(1) Norgate, T. et al., “The Impact of Uranium Ore Grade on the Greenhouse Gas Footprint of Nuclear Power” Journal of Cleaner Production 2014. Okay. And what's happening with the waste? . Why did they change the colors on the graphs?? Seems odd. 

Also, 6 countries and only 5 lines on the bottom.

Something is fishy.. Couldn't they use the same colors for both graphs.. I worked at a nuclear plant for a few years. I really don't see it happening in the U.S. unless the federal government directly steps in and forms some kind of monopoly on commercial power on their own and decides to use nuclear power.

Commercial power companies in the U.S. hate it. Most of the executives see them as a headache with constant huge costs to build and maintain while natural gas and renewables are so much cheaper. Building them is such a pain in the ass these days because of all the regulations, regulatory agencies, and incompetence of the "experienced" companies that still can build plants like Westinghouse, Areva, etc and always end up going past deadlines, over budget, etc. by large margins.

I like nuclear power for a lot of reasons, but in my opinion it'll probably be mostly dead in the U.S. in the next two decades or so when the plants that have been operating since the '70s and '80s become so old and need so much maintenance work that the cost just doesn't make sense to the utilities any more. It's already been happening to a lot of plants across the U.S., and the companies that have decided to build one have almost universally had their share of fiascos and cost overruns mentioned before.

Protip: If you want to study nuclear engineering, don't focus on power generation unless you just love taking huge gambles with your entire future career for some odd reason. Focus on medicine or anything else. The pay is better and the amount of BS you have to put up with is so much less.. The honest trouble with nuclear power is the stigma against it. All someone has to do at a city council meeting to approve a plant is say 3 mile island or Chernobyl and nobody wants to approve it. . Wouldn‘t it be good if just no one used nuclear power and rely on other ‚natural‘ electricity.. These graphs do not include real costs of uranium extraction/concentration.  If we do integrate these processes and their CO2 production,  nuclear energy becomes a lot more dirtyer in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. 

Speaking of potential hydro,  we must also integrate the source of energy used to pump water in the reservoir, wich is often cheap current as charcoal and others making it also dirty. 

I am afraid the equation is not simple as described in this post.

Hopefully,  we Will have fusion one day.... Denmark has only imported nuclear power, never produced it. Are you sure it is not Sweden? 

If you want to advocate for such an important thing as nuclear power, then please get your facts straight first.. Energy production from nuclear sources wouldn't be that bad (except for the risk of accidents), if we had a solution for the nuclear waste.. Ya this belongs on mildly infuriating . Thing is it takes 20+ years to build a nuclear plant.... for when you really hate data viz with a passion. Renewables are now cheaper and safer than nuclear.

I recommend watching episode 2 of Dark Tourist on Netflix. There's plenty of nuclear waste depots all over the world that are becoming dangerous.

Also, if you factor in the decommissioning costs that seem to be spiralling and being foisted on governments/taxpayers, then nuclear is just not cost effective.

[Cost per source here.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source). Isn't nuclear power very expensive without government subsidies?. why do people hate nuclear energy? its unironically the greenest . Unfortunately nuclear takes a lot of time to set up and we need solutions yesterday. I'm not saying not to invest in nuclear energy, but I think we need a hybrid of renewable energy sources and the vast majority, at least in the beginning, need to be quickly implemented.. This may seem nice, but nuclear fission is not the end solution, since it is not a renewable source of energy. . If France had any oil & gas resources or even a decent amount of coal, they wouldn’t be reliant on nuclear power.. Doesn’t nuclear screw up rivers by heating the water?. There's less curves on the bottom one than there is data labels . Can you plot the two graphs versus each other (time independent)?. Can someone explain to me the pollution caused by nuclear? Is it direct pollution (eg. gasses being emmitted) or indirect pollution (eg. ruining an ecosystem or something). Does anyone doubt that co2 is a political problem and not technological? . [deleted]. These graphs mildly annoy me.. The right wing doesn’t like that nuclear detracts from traditional fuel sources. The left wing is scared at a more centralized grid, not because our grid isn’t already centralized, but because nuclear a viable green alternative towards the ‘solar panels on every house’ anti-establishment future. It ruins the underlying principles (corporate/federal american control over resources is bad and necessarilly contributes to global warming) culture battle they are fighting.

And everyone is terrified when they hear the word ‘nuclear’. Just in confidence I’m pretty liberal.

As cool as it would be it will never happen :/. OK, with all due respect, your graph is bullshit. What you are attempting to demonstrate is that the decrease in cost per unit of electricity is related to the increase in the percentage of electricity being generated from nuclear and the implied cost benefits of nuclear power.

At best, this would represent a correlation, which of course does not determine causation. In addition, even if the cost reduction represented was caused by the increase usage of nuclear power, that doesn't mean that this is due to cost benefits of nuclear power over other sources.

The reason for this is that nuclear power plants in France are likely heavily subsidized, so the cost reductions shown in your graph may, in fact, be due to these subsidies, not to inherent cost benefits of nuclear power. To quote [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electricity_sector_in_France) "The French nuclear power sector is almost entirely owned by the French government and the degree of the government subsidy is difficult to ascertain because of a lack of transparency".

This has been a longstanding issue with nuclear power, which is that it is only economically viable when heavily subsidized by national governments, which frequently involves fuel production, tax breaks for construction and operation, and of course the hidden costs of securing highly radioactive waste for centuries.

What we really want is a realistic way for our power plants to produce way less CO2 and way less highly radioactive waste, both of which have significant environmental impacts. And the good news is that this is why wind and solar are being rapidly embraced worldwide.. [removed]. Not relevant; does your graphs take into account embodied energy ?
Because building, transporting nuclear fuels and minerals, deconstructions, all of these are very polluant and expensive.
Not even mentioning security issues.. Inconsistent colors AND the 1980's don't "line up" which would've sold this better.. Nuclear simply isn't going to happen. Unless someone builds an *inherently safe* nuclear reactor (and no such beast currently exists) there will be no take-up.

Renewables are getting cheaper and more reliable every day. 

This is only going one way.. Yeah, let’s replace the CO2 we produce with nuclear waste that will out last our grand kids’ grand kids. But dat water tho. 

My favorite part of solving problems is not having to consider all of the variables. . Oh but I don't know how nuclear power plants actually work and I am afraid they will blow up and that they are dangerous because nuclear bombs are dangerous...and I definitely pronounce it nookyoooler. 

- most people opposed to nuclear power. . All of the countries in this comparison are WAY smaller than the US in terms of both population and power consumption. If all the US had to deal with was a country the size of say Texas (bigger than most single countries in the EU or UK) or smaller, then we might start to see a trend towards a single dominant power technology.

However this is not true and any argument or data sources that don't include developing countries (who produce the Lion's share of atmospheric pollutants) are both scientificaly and politically skewed.

Edited: missing word. And arsenic contains no fat! Having experience Tschernobyl first hand, just NO. And, that fuel will run out, too. Cul de sac! In Germany, energy from renewable sources meanwhile is CHEAPER than nuclear energy.. While yes a good solution for now, it is basically impossible for most countries to make them, and their fuel is set to run out in about a century based on current consumption.. What’s up with all the users shilling for nuclear power lately?. why would I ever use the expensive nuclear energy with insanely dangerous waste that will definitely leak at some point and jeopardize the environment instead of other renewables?. [removed]. I'd recommend this book to everyone reading this thread: https://www.withouthotair.com/. Through nuclear power (on the way to renewables or bypassing renewables) was the only viable way (there were no other available technologies that could meet demand) to achieve the targeted CO2 reductions to avoid climate change.  This was well known in the 70’s. 

Unfortunately environmental protests helped lead to the demise of the option to go nuclear. This quite literally kept coal and oil in place as the primary way to create electricity and power vehicles worldwide.  Leading directly to the atmospheric carbon levels we see today.  

There may have been other reasons to not spread nuclear technologies throughout the world (China India  Brazil Mexico etc) which also needed to convert to nuclear to meet that goal.  

Avoiding significant climate change was within our grasp and as an individual country and as a planet the governments chose to not pursue the only means that were technologically possible at the time.   

We all,  as in all countries, chose climate change over nuclear energy in the 70s and 80s. Except for France. 

Oh.. by the way, France is not a toxic wasteland with radioactive material leaked all over.  But look at the area of the earth covered in coal mines and oil wells.  Look at the footprint on the earth of the uninhabitable places due to that industry and look at the number dead each year in each industry.  It is laughable to compare them.  Nuclear is by far safer for the environment and safer for humans than fossil fuels.  

All of the people that died and will ever die from Chernobyl (counting up all radiation exposure then, now, and in the future ) is about ten times less than the number of coal miners that dye each year in the us.   

. Exactly!  . [deleted]. I wonder.... If only massive oil and energy corporations would stop being so greedy... oh wait that will never happen. Nukes are great for CO2, Radiation leaks, not so much. . Too bad most people are scared of the word “nuclear.” At its most basic level, it’s just hot rocks boiling water to produce steam and spin turbines. Nothing to be scared of really.. Yeah. People where I live (in fucking Sweden) are terrefied by setting up nuclear energy plants because we are so affekted by the media so last time a nuclear plant exploded everyone was like ”Coal is the way to go then!” I’m not saying all Sweden are like this though.. But tools like Helen caldicott have managed to indoctrinate a lot of people to believe nuclear is more dangerous than stuff like coal. She is a dangerous the world.. I’ve always been a proponent of nuclear power. If it’s placed in smart areas such as vast deserts not near fault lines or oceans. . But at what cost..... . If only there was a way to make plots where you could choose the colours.. Also the dates aren't aligned.. In June 2023, I left reddit due to [the mess around spez and API fees](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/reddit-api-changes-explained/).

I moved with many others to lemmy! A community owned, distributed, free and open source software where no single person or group can force people to change platform. https://join-lemmy.org/

All my previous reddit subs have found a replacement in lemmy communities and we're growing fast every day. Thanks for the boost, spez!. /r/dataisugly. Y axis label is the title, x axis label is non-existent, x axis is not aligned, colour scheme inconsistent and hey, who needs Australia in the second graph right?. Should not had exclude Australia..... Thank you I was wondering why the hell they were comparing different countries.. Inconsistent x-axes too.  . God, I didn't even realize there was a color key under the second graph. Only opened the comments to see what the hell the point of this was.. This killed me. . And countries. And timelines. One plot starts in the 1960s and the other in the 1970s. I mean... really? . Tufte weeps.. I'm silently raging in my cubicle over this.

Thank you to all of Reddit for making sure this was the top comment. . This. The lines pointed out are both France.. The TL;DR is that France is the outlier on both curves in that they have the lowest CO2/unit of electricity, while also having the highest energy production from nuclear power.. Yikes. If I have time I can make a duplicate for you in the next few days . Not that the colors were done well here anyway. I don't disagree... but you have to admit, mismatching colors here, it's a way bigger offense than not labeling your axis.

. Finally someone figured it out. . So you’d pull the... nuclear....  Option?. Nuclear is the only way to produce enough energy that is clean . Basically it's nuclear politics!. https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/log_scale.png. I felt the same way about the recent IPCC thing (I think it was?) about the urgency. 

Urgency means utilizing everything we can dammit!. The reason is cost. Why should they push a more expensive solution compared to other renewables?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source. Mostly nuclear power was a useful plan twenty years ago, but it takes twenty years to commission nuclear power plants. This means if it was our only strategy, we would already be fucked by the time they all came online. I'm not saying don't start now, just that it won't help the current crisis for a good 20-30 years and we could all be fucked by then, so we need better shorter term plans (which we're also not doing because fossil fuel companies want to keep making money). As the op didn't care to cite the author.
Mr Neil Hirst 
Senior Policy Fellow for the Grantham Institute
Imperial college london 

The two graphs you see here are both from his book The energy conundrum. 

They are both taken from different sections and the bottom one has a different legend and title in the book.. Ive always been under the impression that nuclear could handle most demands.. I mean we use it as a propellant system for huge ships.. it has to be able to turn up the juice on a moments notice.. > and they also burn more fossil fuels than they like to admit.

lol, this is most of europe ;-). Energy to gas maybe?

Excess gas production can apparently be stored in the gas infrastructure pipes themselves.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Agree completely with this analysis. How many deaths from fine dust and so on? Nuclear powerplants are great when much effort and training and heavy safety measures are provided and then why not make it big business?

Fusion would be even nicer though.. You mock, but that’s exactly the problem. Nuclear is scary.

Yes, statistically it’s among the least harmful. Yes, a single dam failure in China killed like 170,000 people. But “coal causes an X% increase in risk X, Y, and Z” doesn’t capture the public imagination like IRRADIATED WASTELAND does. The empty shell of Pripyat, and the gruesome fates of the first responders weigh heavily in the minds of John and Jane Q Public. Nuclear is scary to them.

Concerted effort would have to be made to de-spookify nuclear. Engaging and explaining rather than ridiculing and talking down. It’d likely take a generation (and Fukushima was a setback for that). And then, with public opinion on your side, you’d still have to contend with decade-long lead times and incredible costs.. And expensive. [deleted]. Denmark (like most other Europen countries) buy electricity from other countries aswell.

There are even companies who speculate in cross border energy trading.. Right? And what was going on with Denmark in the mid 70s and 80s? Lol. We are unfortunately a very backwards country with regards to clean energy:/. Thanks for the source, as a geologist, I have always been curious about Uranium deposits. 
. [removed]. Nuclear waste is honestly just about the ideal form of pollutant for energy production. It’s not exuded into the atmosphere, it’s containable (vitrification makes it completely safe to bury, but for whatever reason waste management has tended to be atrociously mismanaged instead), it’s produced in *very* small quantities relative to the amount of energy produced, and it’s even recyclable in the right reactor designs. 

Contrast that with fossil fuel pollution and it’s no comparison, not even close. Fossil fuel pollutants are dispersed throughout the entire atmosphere and environment, they can’t be easily captured, stored, or cleaned, the health detriments they incur are *enormous* (air pollution is now the leading cause of premature death!) and **they’re cooking the fucking planet.**

. It's stored in a safe place and eventually buried underground. Seems like a no-brainer compared to releasing it in the atmosphere and letting it warm the climate.. The important thing is it's not being ejected out into the atmosphere, which we breathe and depend on, like coal waste is. 

Always about nuclear waste but never about the coal waste, which is also radioactive. . [Its really not a big deal](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/7v76v4/what_is_something_that_sounds_extremely_wrong_but/dtqd9ey/?context=3).

A small storage area is all that's needed to house it temporarily, until it can be reprocessed back into usable fuel.. Not contributing to co2 at least. Check out the facility Finland built, it's super neat. . What’s happening with the waste produced by coal plants? . It can be used in [Generation IV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_IV_reactor#Advantages_and_disadvantages) reactors to produce energy.

I mean, what makes that waste dangerous? Radiation.

What is radiation? That this stuff dissipates energy.

Build a power plant around it and output electricity (overly simplified version).

In practice, that rather won't happen due to economic reasons but it's probably cheaper and safer than storing the waste for hundreds of years.. Reprocessed back to fuel. Leftovers buried. When all is done, there's only a minuscule amount of waste anyways.

In the worst case, if we don't want to deal with it or the whole thing leaks, then we fully contaminate a single small area of the planet with the entire world's nuclear waste for a million years, and it would still be worth the trade off.. Nuclear is the only energy source where the waste is managed and taken care of. . Breeder reactors and travelling wave reactors then burried in a concrete vault for 100 years. . What happens to CO2? How do you store it? How do you reprocess it into something less harmful? Oh.. . That's actually the big outstanding question. Right now it's all stored on site in big concrete slabs. There are designed for breeder reactors that can use spent fuel to make more power but none have been made for commercial use yet.. No maliciousness, just an inability to matplotlib.

The colours are assigned automatically by data set, starting with blue. Since one of the graphs has an extra data set, the colours are all shifted.. The goal is typically 8 years.  4 years of paperwork/red tape and 4 years of building.. Actually, you can build one in a few years which can provide energy to a vast community for many decades, far longer than any wind or solar farm. 


In the US, there is a lot of opposition from some people and organizations, which delays reactor building. . > and safer than nuclear.

[That's completely false.](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2012/06/10/energys-deathprint-a-price-always-paid/#27dfdd4f709b)  

And next gen nuclear reactors don't produce nearly as much waste as current ones do.  Lots of options for dealing with wastes, many newer gen reactor designs can actually burn up a lot of the old waste.  Its always been more of a political problem than an engineering one.  A lot of it comes down to recycling limitations due to nuclear proliferation concerns, and the fact that we actually like reactors that produce plutonium. . That’s literally saying “technology that we’ve been successfully using for four decades is now less good than technology we have today.” Modern nuclear reactors are cheaper and safer than ever. 

Nuclear waste storage problems are being blown out of proportion. It’s actually very easy to store or even reuse some nuclear waste. . Solar panels lose at least 0.5% of their energy generation each year and average lifespans of turbines is less than 15 years. Depending on how insurance is handles nuclear is cheaper and has a lower carbon footprint, not even accounting for the space needed and how that would influence local wildlife, forests etc. The levelised cost of energy puts nuclear as a cheaper option than most forms of energy,even solar depending on region and again I emphasis depending on how insurance is handled. France handles the insurance on a governmental level, which some may see as a subside. In 2011 France payed 50 euro per MWh because of State-covered insurance costs, in 2018 Electricite De France quotes 60 euro per MWh for new plants,lower if build in bulk. You can buy reactors abroad. KEPCO builds state of the art nuclear power plants for cheap (their latest build is Barakah nuclear power plant, on budget and on time). And then there is china: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2015/10/22/china-shows-how-to-build-nuclear-reactors-fast-and-cheap

Kepco with 3 and 10% discount rate gives a rate of 29 to 51 $/MWh.

Far more realistic costs are in this report from IEA: https://www.oecd-nea.org/ndd/pubs/2015/7057-proj-costs-electricity-2015.pdf. Despite all the regulation nuclear is the cheapest option for many countries https://i.imgur.com/Wyh9Lik.png

Report for Ontario, Canada from Fraser Institute - Rising Electricity Costs and Declining Employment in Ontario’s Manufacturing Sector, and summary for costs: https://i.imgur.com/YVaBxTF.png . It puts nuclear at around 66 $/MWh.

https://thebreakthrough.org/index.php/voices/energetics/taking-a-look-at-lazards-levelized-cost-estimates

Here's a researcher from the break through institute looking and comparing the numbers between studies.

The wind prices quoted in the report by LAZARD, the most favorable report to wind and solar(mainly because they invest in wind and solar and have been found to misrepresent nuclear tech by using only 1 type of reactor and quoting the price and costs which come up the first time it was build, 4 other reports by legitimate organizations contradict their findings, namely the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, International Energy Agency and Energy Information Administration) are for wind capacities of 45-55%, higher than most places will ever get or that their Solar- Crystaline utility assumes a tracking system and 30% capacity factor, which BTW almost no one in Europe gets. Renewables in the report are enjoying some unrealistic capacity factors, where reality CF is more like: UK 30% wind capacity factor, germany 21% wind and 10% solar capacity factor. China 23% wind, solar 18%, US 35% for wind. Or how about this little * they add

> Certain Alternative Energy generation technologies are cost-competitive with conventional generation technologies under some scenarios

> Analysis excludes integration (e.g., grid and conventional generation investment to overcome system intermittency) costs for costs for intermittent technologies.

The thing with renewables is the GRID upgrades needed to support the fluctuation in power generation. Really do look into German Wind power plant excess. Basically they build more Wind parks than they can use. The grid cannot take the power surges, and companies need to stop their production at peak wind conditions (up to 69% in some weather). Currently the German Wind and Solar market is worth 100 billion euro.While the grid would need an investment of 500 billion € to withstand the current fluctuations it produces. And here we are not even speaking of the General Grid enhancement Germany needs to Link north and south as well as east and west Germany.

http://www.rp-online.de/wirtschaft/unternehmen/deutsches-stromnetz-schrammt-am-blackout-vorbei-aid-1.6636489

http://www.herbert.saurugg.net/2017/blog/stromversorgung/stromnetz-kurz-vor-dem-zusammenbruch

The second shows the horrors of production the grid faces. Those power graphs are a nightmare for grid stability to maintain. And yes, they did think of batteries. They made the largest battery complex in the world. A whole building full of batteries to somewhat help a small portion of the grid, but not really.

This study: http://www.world-nuclear.org/uploadedFiles/org/WNA/Publications/Working_Group_Reports/comparison_of_lifecycle.pdf

Puts the solar Co2 per GW for solar as 85 vs the 29 for nuclear. If we take that to account nuclear becomes very competitive.

Source:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source

https://www.reuters.com/article/europe-electricity-idUSL8N1L947Q (quote 50 euro)

https://www.ft.com/content/7c68a702-57cb-11e8-bdb7-f6677d2e1ce8?segmentId=9b41d47b-8acb-fadb-7c70-37ee589b60ab (quote 60 euro for new plants)

https://www.engineering.com/DesignerEdge/DesignerEdgeArticles/ArticleID/7475/What-Is-the-Lifespan-of-a-Solar-Panel.aspx

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/energy/windpower/9770837/Wind-farm-turbines-wear-sooner-than-expected-says-study.html

http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/economic-aspects/economics-of-nuclear-power.aspx

. It has high capital costs for several reasons, one of which is huge amounts of regulation. It has low and stable fuel costs, high capacity factors, and other features that make it viable, though nothing can compete with natural gas in a straight contest atm.. In the US other renewables actually are subsidized more than nuclear.. So are fossil fuels though.. Solar panels lose at least 0.5% of their energy generation each year and average lifespans of turbines is less than 15 years. Depending on how insurance is handles nuclear is cheaper and has a lower carbon footprint, not even accounting for the space needed and how that would influence local wildlife, forests etc. The levelised cost of energy puts nuclear as a cheaper option than most forms of energy,even solar depending on region and again I emphasis depending on how insurance is handled. France handles the insurance on a governmental level, which some may see as a subside. In 2011 France payed 50 euro per MWh because of State-covered insurance costs, in 2018 Electricite De France quotes 60 euro per MWh for new plants,lower if build in bulk. You can buy reactors abroad. KEPCO builds state of the art nuclear power plants for cheap (their latest build is Barakah nuclear power plant, on budget and on time). And then there is china: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2015/10/22/china-shows-how-to-build-nuclear-reactors-fast-and-cheap

Kepco with 3 and 10% discount rate gives a rate of 29 to 51 $/MWh.

Far more realistic costs are in this report from IEA: https://www.oecd-nea.org/ndd/pubs/2015/7057-proj-costs-electricity-2015.pdf. Despite all the regulation nuclear is the cheapest option for many countries https://i.imgur.com/Wyh9Lik.png

Report for Ontario, Canada from Fraser Institute - Rising Electricity Costs and Declining Employment in Ontario’s Manufacturing Sector, and summary for costs: https://i.imgur.com/YVaBxTF.png . It puts nuclear at around 66 $/MWh.

https://thebreakthrough.org/index.php/voices/energetics/taking-a-look-at-lazards-levelized-cost-estimates

Here's a researcher from the break through institute looking and comparing the numbers between studies.

The wind prices quoted in the report by LAZARD, the most favorable report to wind and solar(mainly because they invest in wind and solar and have been found to misrepresent nuclear tech by using only 1 type of reactor and quoting the price and costs which come up the first time it was build, 4 other reports by legitimate organizations contradict their findings, namely the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, International Energy Agency and Energy Information Administration) are for wind capacities of 45-55%, higher than most places will ever get or that their Solar- Crystaline utility assumes a tracking system and 30% capacity factor, which BTW almost no one in Europe gets. Renewables in the report are enjoying some unrealistic capacity factors, where reality CF is more like: UK 30% wind capacity factor, germany 21% wind and 10% solar capacity factor. China 23% wind, solar 18%, US 35% for wind. Or how about this little * they add

> Certain Alternative Energy generation technologies are cost-competitive with conventional generation technologies under some scenarios

> Analysis excludes integration (e.g., grid and conventional generation investment to overcome system intermittency) costs for costs for intermittent technologies.

The thing with renewables is the GRID upgrades needed to support the fluctuation in power generation. Really do look into German Wind power plant excess. Basically they build more Wind parks than they can use. The grid cannot take the power surges, and companies need to stop their production at peak wind conditions (up to 69% in some weather). Currently the German Wind and Solar market is worth 100 billion euro.While the grid would need an investment of 500 billion € to withstand the current fluctuations it produces. And here we are not even speaking of the General Grid enhancement Germany needs to Link north and south as well as east and west Germany.

http://www.rp-online.de/wirtschaft/unternehmen/deutsches-stromnetz-schrammt-am-blackout-vorbei-aid-1.6636489

http://www.herbert.saurugg.net/2017/blog/stromversorgung/stromnetz-kurz-vor-dem-zusammenbruch

The second shows the horrors of production the grid faces. Those power graphs are a nightmare for grid stability to maintain. And yes, they did think of batteries. They made the largest battery complex in the world. A whole building full of batteries to somewhat help a small portion of the grid, but not really.

This study: http://www.world-nuclear.org/uploadedFiles/org/WNA/Publications/Working_Group_Reports/comparison_of_lifecycle.pdf

Puts the solar Co2 per GW for solar as 85 vs the 29 for nuclear. If we take that to account nuclear becomes very competitive.

Source:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source

https://www.reuters.com/article/europe-electricity-idUSL8N1L947Q (quote 50 euro)

https://www.ft.com/content/7c68a702-57cb-11e8-bdb7-f6677d2e1ce8?segmentId=9b41d47b-8acb-fadb-7c70-37ee589b60ab (quote 60 euro for new plants)

https://www.engineering.com/DesignerEdge/DesignerEdgeArticles/ArticleID/7475/What-Is-the-Lifespan-of-a-Solar-Panel.aspx

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/energy/windpower/9770837/Wind-farm-turbines-wear-sooner-than-expected-says-study.html

http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/economic-aspects/economics-of-nuclear-power.aspx

. Only in the US. In South Korea and Japan reactors are much cheaper. That's partly due to regulatory differences, and maybe also due to differences into how government contracts are awarded. Delays in construction are more common and make the investment very costly here. Interest on loans accumulates very quickly, and it takes a few years operations for most plants to recoup the cost of their construction, so delays are very bad.

No idea what the cost is like in Europe. I'd assume between the US and Asia.

Nuclear power, or at least 2nd and 1st generation nuclear power, is never going to be cost efficient outside highly dense areas due to the high amount of capital required to make investments in the US, but we could be using it a lot more effectively than we are now. However, it might be unrealistic to expect local, state or federal governments to ease up on regulatory requirements for nuclear power, given how controversial they are politically.. [Electricity is 2x cheaper in France than in Germany.](https://1-stromvergleich.com/medien/electricity-prices-europe-1.png). Well everything is indirectly subsidized especially in fossil fuels so its hard to really know, but nuclear is around 2X the price of fossil fuels, but it could be lowered drastically by economy of scale. Also most of the plants are really old and could be heavily improved with newer tech. Finally nuclear power probably has the most room for improvement, even more than wind/solar and with a some funding and a few actually feasible breakthroughs we could see massive increases the the effectiveness of nuclear power.. Even **if** nuclear power was expensive, would you rather have a environment preserving strategy (with the associated costs) or a cheap alternative that ruins the planets/species ? My choice is made.
. "Chernobyl", "Fukushima", and "Three Mile Island".  

Seriously, it's just the negative press from a couple incidents which were caused by massive human stupidity of intentionally doing bad things.  People hear about a couple bad but preventable disasters and lose their minds.

Of course, they conveniently forget about stuff like [when a dam fails and kills tens or hundreds of thousands of people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banqiao_Dam) when they're suggesting that we use hydroelectric for stuff.  

Ironically, nuclear power has the [fewest deaths per kWh](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2012/06/10/energys-deathprint-a-price-always-paid/), despite (and partially because of) everyone's paranoia about nuclear power.  . Because two incidents, the nuclear bombs and oil companies defamation.. Yup. Just another fossil fuel we dig up from the ground. No wonder the fossil fuel lobby likes it - it's right in line with their business model.

And yes, we do get lots more energy per gram of uranium than per gram of coal. But it's also a hell of a lot harder to refine uranium than to dump raw coal into a burner. If anyone has numbers on what cost of reactor grade uranium vs energy released is, I'd like to see them.. True! But that's not the point. For the anectods the shift to nuclear was made in the seventies after the opep crisis and was part of an overall policy to reduce energy consumption. One known phrase from this time was "In France we don't have oil but we have ideas!". . Coal plants too. It's the same principle.

1. get something hot (burn coal or conduct nuclear reaction)
2. use it to heat up water
3. make electricity from steam. Use warm run off water in district heating systems to heat the nearby cities. Problem solved.. ....that's what the cooling towers are for?. In June 2023, I left reddit due to [the mess around spez and API fees](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/reddit-api-changes-explained/).

I moved with many others to lemmy! A community owned, distributed, free and open source software where no single person or group can force people to change platform. https://join-lemmy.org/

All my previous reddit subs have found a replacement in lemmy communities and we're growing fast every day. Thanks for the boost, spez!. It's still better than carbon dioxide poisoning.. Thermal pollution is a problem, but one shared with fossil fuel plants and a pretty minor one compared to the other issues caused by hydrocarbon fuels. . Not necessarily. It depends on what the ultimate heat sink is for the plant. It can be lakes, rivers, bays, or even cooling towers that use the air. The EPA actually regulates the delta T between water intake and outlet very closely. Even cooling towers that use the air are regulated for "heat pollution". 

Actually a lot of the fish love that water that's a couple degrees warmer. I know fisherman can kill it catching fish by the outlet.. The pollution is from initial construction costs and a very small overhead from mining and similar operational overheads.  There's basically no pollution from running the reactor itself other than the spent fuel that can be boxed up in containers and left in a secure area to sit out the remainder of it's radioactivity (or until we get some research funding to more efficiently use partially spent nuclear fuel).  . From my knowledge, the only type is indirect, but even if it's dangerous it's also a lot easier to deal with than most other types of plant-caused pollution, since you can literally do nothing but put the toxic byproducts in an isolated hole. Can't really do that with gases.

There's also the bonus that they won't be toxic forever. Radiation is basically instability in the nuclei of the atoms, and nature tends to fix that with time. If it became habit to use nuclear energy, the containment units for the byproducts could be organized to take in account the half life of said material and have it removed once it's safe, making space for more.. It goes into a vault and could potentially posion people if it's not looked after. 

The CO2 is definitely not looked after and is warming up the entire planet.. The graphs have nothing to do with cost per unit of electricity... the top graph shows CO2 emissions per unit of electricity and the bottom shows % of electricity generated by nuclear plants. Nothing about the price or cost of generating electricity. . Nuclear power is about as close to infinite as any power source other than the sun is.  It's so plentiful on Earth that we haven't actually bothered working on ways to refine our extraction of it or optimize reactors for more perfect energy extraction.  IIRC, we've got plenty of uranium on the planet for thousands of years worth of energy generation.

It might not be the singular optimal power source for every situation, but it's an amazing technology which could remove our dependence on fossil fuels for power generation.

And we've got plenty of places to put the waste, it's just complicated by NIMBYism.  All we need is a couple football fields worth of space in the middle of a desert or mountain somewhere and we can store generations worth of power production; even more so if we actually spend a bit of research funding working on optimizing power extraction to leave less leftover fuel when the fuel is "spent".. Yes we do, there's a ton of isolating materials that could be used to contain the waste.. [deleted]. How long does CO2 last?. Ah the good old "but the US is YUGE" argument applied to everything... Even when it makes zero sense.. If it is so cheap why do we have to subsidize it? From 2000-2016 the german citizens had to pay over 125 billion € just for the EEG alone and it is projected to reach over 400 billion till 2025. (source:  Düsseldorf Institute for Competition Economics). The EEG is increasing every year and it is now already more than a -fifth- of the gross price per kWh! 

r/https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strompreis#Abgaben_und_Umlagen  
r/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Renewable_Energy_Sources_Act#EEG_surcharge. That's only because it's not worthwhile for mining companies to bother staking new claims.  We've already got a century worth of uranium ore surveyed and claimed and ready to be mined, there's no reason to spend money staking claims that won't be mined for a century.  

There's plenty of fissile material on the planet, we're just lazy about mining it because it doesn't get consumed fast.  If there were higher demand for power generation from nuclear power plants, there'd also be a higher supply.  There's plenty of the stuff on the planet.  . Besides that being not true, MSRs can run partially on existing waste.. If you’ve been on Reddit, you’ll know it’s not “lately”. It’s just that if you look at the facts, nuclear is the best base load power option out there. . Yeah because the 30 million tons of carbon dioxide released every year is less harmful to the environment than the 20 tons of nuclear waste produced by a single nuclear power plant. 

To power the entire U.S with nothing but nuclear plants, you would need around 500 stations to produce the 4,100 terra-watt-hour energy need. That’s 10,000 tons of nuclear waste every year vs. the 7 million tons of carbon dioxide, and even that number can be greatly reduced with thorium as a supplement to the fission process.. Treat it like carbon waste and pump it out into the atmosphere. Nobody seems to have any problems with that!...

...or just bury it? There’s not really that much.. [removed]. Again, the focus on an either or approach instead of an all of the above. Technology has changed a lot since the 70's on all fronts and fossil fuel power generation has gotten much better. Not going to argue that coal as a fule is especially dirty but most 1st world countries have access to 'clean coal' technologies as well as the ability to move to cleaner fuels like NatGas.

As long as people demonize any approach without being realistic about how long/difficult it would be to implement the 'perfect' solution, we will continue to circle the argument without jumping in to actually DO something.

There are no 'greenfield' opportunities out there to scrap one plan and go with another. We have to work on transition technologies in every area. Since most of the CO2 that is sited as 'the' problem with fossil fuels is now being produced more and more by China, India and South America, we need to focus on how to up-tech their power systems without turning into a political argument. The way to do that IMO is to make solutions that help them use what they have more efficiently and cleaner as they grow.. Actually, that's not true at all. Coal plants release way more radioactivity into the atmosphere than nuclear plants do.. >If it’s placed in smart areas such as vast deserts

A large body of water is necessary for cooling.. Some day we’ll have the technology. Or a way to compare CO2 output to amount of power generated in a single graph. . There are!!! Woo matplotlib. That's what got my 'accept with minor revisions' reflex twitching. And it looks like it was made in Excel or something. Australia has no nuclear power plants that are used for electricity production. (Although it does have a research reactor at Lucas Heights). 

But I agree that this should be represented in the plot somehow. . Egregious when drawing the comparison they are. I think we can all come together and agree that op's chart is bad and they should feel bad. . Thank you. Lmao he actually believed u. I am blind; can you do one for me too?. "clean"^^^^ at least no co2. we only have to keep it up for another 30-50 years until fusion is viable and economically profitable.. Where's the sun on that graph.. Because nuclear power provides a stable baseline for when renewables might falter. Until we have better ways to store power from renewables, we need a constant source of power. Nuclear is much better than coal for this.. Bit late to the party.

If the [negative externalities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Externality) were accounted for nuclear would be the more favorable option. In our current world we largely pretend that our pollution doesn't impose costs on others.

A carbon tax is my favorite solution. It assigns a price to hydrocarbon fuels up front. It would reduce demand/usage while also making alternatives more attractive, and provide revenue streams for research, pollution mitigation, etc.. Part of the reason for the large cost is approval of new designs by the NRC and any other regulatory body that gets involved.  One of the things that is lacking is pre-approval for a few different designs.  Operating costs should also be lower on the newer designs.

On a personal note, I find that nuclear power is something we should invest more in as a country.  It’s not the solution, but a solution.. MIT did a study on this:

http://energy.mit.edu/research/future-nuclear-energy-carbon-constrained-world/

The conclusion is that even if nuclear is more expensive per kWh than intermittent power sources, building a low carbon grid is way cheaper with nuclear than without.

As France has demonstrated over the last 3 decades, nuclear can be both cheap and safe. So we should take a critical look at why it has become so expensive to build new nuclear in the West. . I would say nuclear can achieve the goal faster and more reliably than any renewable. So even with the cost it is worth it. . Because it's still cheaper than destroying the earth's climate. 

I'm all for heavily investing in solar, wind, hydro, etc. But nuclear is *by far* our best option that is both clean *and* scalable. . It’s not just the cost, it’s the speed with which we need to switch, which is *as fast as is possible*.

If you think climate change is an urgent dire problem then it’s a bad idea to restrict ourselves in any way—and dismissing nuclear power as part of the solution is a huge restriction. . Exactly. You have a billion dollars to spend. All you care about is maximizing megawatts for the lowest carbon. 

https://i.imgur.com/hKMljd5.png . Because it’s not more expensive in some places? Or because when it is, it’s costs are still comparable? Or because the reason it is so expensive is because nuclear power costs is the only power source that takes into account every cost it has such as disposal of waste? Because it takes far less land to use? Because renewable energy requires something to provide a base load? Because it’s safer than renewables? Because new reactors have lowered risks, costs, and more? . Solar panels lose at least 0.5% of their energy generation each year and average lifespans of turbines is less than 15 years. Depending on how insurance is handles nuclear is cheaper and has a lower carbon footprint, not even accounting for the space needed and how that would influence local wildlife, forests etc. The levelised cost of energy puts nuclear as a cheaper option than most forms of energy,even solar depending on region and again I emphasis depending on how insurance is handled. France handles the insurance on a governmental level, which some may see as a subside. In 2011 France payed 50 euro per MWh because of State-covered insurance costs, in 2018 Electricite De France quotes 60 euro per MWh for new plants,lower if build in bulk. You can buy reactors abroad. KEPCO builds state of the art nuclear power plants for cheap (their latest build is Barakah nuclear power plant, on budget and on time). And then there is china: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2015/10/22/china-shows-how-to-build-nuclear-reactors-fast-and-cheap

Kepco with 3 and 10% discount rate gives a rate of 29 to 51 $/MWh.

Far more realistic costs are in this report from IEA: https://www.oecd-nea.org/ndd/pubs/2015/7057-proj-costs-electricity-2015.pdf. Despite all the regulation nuclear is the cheapest option for many countries https://i.imgur.com/Wyh9Lik.png

Report for Ontario, Canada from Fraser Institute - Rising Electricity Costs and Declining Employment in Ontario’s Manufacturing Sector, and summary for costs: https://i.imgur.com/YVaBxTF.png . It puts nuclear at around 66 $/MWh.

https://thebreakthrough.org/index.php/voices/energetics/taking-a-look-at-lazards-levelized-cost-estimates

Here's a researcher from the break through institute looking and comparing the numbers between studies.

The wind prices quoted in the report by LAZARD, the most favorable report to wind and solar(mainly because they invest in wind and solar and have been found to misrepresent nuclear tech by using only 1 type of reactor and quoting the price and costs which come up the first time it was build, 4 other reports by legitimate organizations contradict their findings, namely the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, International Energy Agency and Energy Information Administration) are for wind capacities of 45-55%, higher than most places will ever get or that their Solar- Crystaline utility assumes a tracking system and 30% capacity factor, which BTW almost no one in Europe gets. Renewables in the report are enjoying some unrealistic capacity factors, where reality CF is more like: UK 30% wind capacity factor, germany 21% wind and 10% solar capacity factor. China 23% wind, solar 18%, US 35% for wind. Or how about this little * they add

> Certain Alternative Energy generation technologies are cost-competitive with conventional generation technologies under some scenarios

> Analysis excludes integration (e.g., grid and conventional generation investment to overcome system intermittency) costs for costs for intermittent technologies.

The thing with renewables is the GRID upgrades needed to support the fluctuation in power generation. Really do look into German Wind power plant excess. Basically they build more Wind parks than they can use. The grid cannot take the power surges, and companies need to stop their production at peak wind conditions (up to 69% in some weather). Currently the German Wind and Solar market is worth 100 billion euro.While the grid would need an investment of 500 billion € to withstand the current fluctuations it produces. And here we are not even speaking of the General Grid enhancement Germany needs to Link north and south as well as east and west Germany.

http://www.rp-online.de/wirtschaft/unternehmen/deutsches-stromnetz-schrammt-am-blackout-vorbei-aid-1.6636489

http://www.herbert.saurugg.net/2017/blog/stromversorgung/stromnetz-kurz-vor-dem-zusammenbruch

The second shows the horrors of production the grid faces. Those power graphs are a nightmare for grid stability to maintain. And yes, they did think of batteries. They made the largest battery complex in the world. A whole building full of batteries to somewhat help a small portion of the grid, but not really.

This study: http://www.world-nuclear.org/uploadedFiles/org/WNA/Publications/Working_Group_Reports/comparison_of_lifecycle.pdf

Puts the solar Co2 per GW for solar as 85 vs the 29 for nuclear. If we take that to account nuclear becomes very competitive.

Source:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source

https://www.reuters.com/article/europe-electricity-idUSL8N1L947Q (quote 50 euro)

https://www.ft.com/content/7c68a702-57cb-11e8-bdb7-f6677d2e1ce8?segmentId=9b41d47b-8acb-fadb-7c70-37ee589b60ab (quote 60 euro for new plants)

https://www.engineering.com/DesignerEdge/DesignerEdgeArticles/ArticleID/7475/What-Is-the-Lifespan-of-a-Solar-Panel.aspx

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/earth/energy/windpower/9770837/Wind-farm-turbines-wear-sooner-than-expected-says-study.html

http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/economic-aspects/economics-of-nuclear-power.aspx. Because it's faster?     

"We knew how to divide emissions by 10 in 15 years, but dividing them by 2 was cheaper" see how that fly.. They didn't start building nuclear plants 20 years ago because 'they'd take 20 years', but we'd fucking have them now if they had.  This is such a ridiculous argument.  It's going to take 1-200 years before we're in serious trouble.  There's definitely still time and how this isn't already priority 1 is beyond me. . Thanks for the info. I asked because the list of countries looks like it might have been cherry-picked. Also it's just good practice to post your sources.. That, would, be, ... weird.      

I've put those graph [together](https://imgur.com/a/6rFgr) a long long time ago, and have been posting them a lot of times since then. OP is reaping the karma from one of my post, and the heat for the crappy colours and axes that were my fault.    

It would be funny if The energy conundrum included the exact same mismatched countries, colours and axes.   

Anyway, the data is from IEA, so anybody willing to pay can have access to them.. Oh, nuclear definitely IS a base-load technology, that's my point. If people hate nuclear but want low-emissions, what's the planned replacement for base-load needs? Geothermal and hydro can also be base-loads but that's not an option for lots of countries/cities.

> it has to be able to turn up the juice on a moments notice

This actually is less true at large-scales. The ability to operate nuclear as a "dispatchable" source (i.e. you can alter output on the fly) is less strong. It can often take hours to "spool up" or "down" the output of a nuclear reactor. Unfortunately, the optimal source in terms of base-load and dispatchability is something like natural gas.. You'll still need gas peaker plants, even with 100% nuclear base load. Nuclear plants like to get up to 100% and stay there. Maneuvering power can challenge the equipment and personnel. Ideally a nuke plant wants to come online to 100%, and run for 18 months or 24 months or whatever the fuel cycle is before they come back down to refuel. My point being is that they can't respond quickly to the changing grid demand the way a gas burner can. Those peaker can be started remotely with just a keystroke by a grid operator.

Part of the problem with that though is how bulk power is bought and sold. That reliability factor is not an incentive as much as you'd think. Another part of it is that a myriad of organizations are regulating nuclear out of existence. When a gas plant blows up no one bats an eye, but a nuke plant worker stubs his toe and people lose their minds. Some of the regulation is needed because how bad nukes cam go wrong if they do go wrong. But we have 50 years of engineering and operating experience that would make the nuke plant accidents of yester year impossible. . You need a reliable carbon source for that, unless you want to go energy to hydrogen or energy to ammonia, both of which are not suitable for the current infrastructure. It's not really junk though.  It's still useful fuel.  Future (and current) reactor designs can still make use of them.. If we pump oil out of the earth from so far underground, why not pump radioactive waste into it afterwards? There's little life there to disturb, and it fills the gaps against earthquakes.. Arguably that is because nuclear power plants have to take care of their waste while fossil fuel plants are allowed to dump their waste into the air. If fossil fuel plants had to take serious care of their CO2 emission they would be a lot more expensive. Nuclear energy: the airplanes of energy sources.. Meanwhile, [coal exposes everyone to radioactive material](https://inis.iaea.org/collection/NCLCollectionStore/_Public/43/035/43035329.pdf), moreso than living next to an operating nuclear plant.

I really wish this were more widely disseminated.. [deleted]. These arent one off problems though. When top soil becomes irradiated it takes decades to taper off just look at the effects of Rocky flats. People living near there have severely dangerous radiation levels and instead of fixing the problem the local government raised the acceptable level of “safe radiation” instead of actually addressing the issue. Its not about cheaper energy its about responsible energy. . The biggest concern for nuclear power for me is earthquakes. 

I live on the west coast, and there is supposed to be a giant earthquake any minute(or within another hundred years). And I don't want to have to do with nuclear waste in the rivers as a result of said earthquake. 


. So if someone has arachnophobia we kill all spiders instead of treating the sick person? And if someone has vertigo we knock down all skyscrapers... :) . It's a lot easier to store nuclear water from nuclear power plants than it is to clean up the radioactive radon sowing into the atmosphere than coal burning plants. And a lot easier than holding back the ocean when it rises. And easier than protecting against interestingly powerful and destructive weather. And increasing desertification of stead Africa and the middle East (if you thought the Syrian refugee crisis is bad and destabilizing, wait until half of Africa and the middle East are virtually uninhabitable for humans). Also, literally every fossil fuel is mined in one way or another. . What about mining materials for wind and solar? . That’s true, but the graph says ‘production’ maybe it was meant to be consumption.. This study: http://www.world-nuclear.org/uploadedFiles/org/WNA/Publications/Working_Group_Reports/comparison_of_lifecycle.pdf

Puts the solar Co2 per GW for solar as 85 vs the 29 for nuclear.. Those figures include extraction and processing of uranium ores, as well as amortized emissions from building the nuclear plant itself, which requires a lot of concrete.. I think a more interesting comparison would be that between nuclear waste and waste from renewable energies. And that between the cost of nuclear plants construction and the investments in nuclear fusion research.. or even bred and reused . Buried were? That is one of the main problems.. > It's stored in a safe place

hopefully.

. Yeah... there is only 24000 years half life what could go wrong!?. Thats why renewables are the solution. :) . I'm kind of on the fence about nuclear power. Nuclear waste is, from my perspective, the main argument against it. Now, the post by /u/[Hypothesis\_Null](https://www.reddit.com/user/Hypothesis_Null) you linked argues that this is not as big of a problem as I think. However, I am still doubtful about the argument. Maybe you can help and explain some thing.

The way I see it, the argument can be broken down into two pieces: 1. The amount of nuclear waste produced is relatively small (about one storage cask per 2MW/y). 2. We have multiple ways of dealing with the waste that is produced, we just haven't decided yet which one is the best (geological storage, burner reactors, volume-reduction reprocessing).

So my questions are:

1. The estimate of the amount of nuclear waste seems to only include spend fuel rods. However, aren't there other kinds of nuclear waste? What about tools used to manipulate the fuel rods? Parts of the cooling system? The power plant itself, once it gets decommissioned? Sure, those are (afaik) not as radioactive as the fuel. But still, I wouldn't want them lying around in my backyard.
2. On the issue of dealing with nuclear waste, the author os the post seems to agree with my opinion, that geological storage isn't an option for the more radioactive kinds of waste. However, he mentions that nuclear waste is actually quite valuable and can be recycled into new fuel. Two questions on that point: If this is the case, why isn't this done already on a large scale? Why do we store the waste at all, instead of immediately recycling it? Also, how efficient are these recycling processes?  Is there any waste leftover, that can't be recycled any further? If so, what are the options to deal with that?

 ^((Please excuse any language mistakes, english is not my first language)). [deleted]. I think we have about 10 to build enough to make a dent in the IPCC prediction. Works out . Let me chime in as a Georgian. Holy fucking shit could you guys please wrap this thing up. I fought for you, and now you’re making me look bad. . Coal is not renewable. Plus with nuclear, it's going to be in the future when waste deposits have been growing for hundreds of years, and are [forgotten about and falling apart](https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/south-pacific/99300184/a-nuclear-waste-dump-in-the-pacific-ocean-is-leaking--and-climate-change-is-to-blame) that deaths will start to increase. It's not a severe problem now, but we shouldn't be short sighted like we seem to be with so many other parts of our world and economies.. Not to mention that he completely ignored the fact that nuclear power actually has the fewest deaths per kWh, even when you factor in every major incident at a nuclear power plant (Chernobyl, Fukushima, Three Mile Island, etc), which were caused by safety measures being ignored rather than fundamental issues with the technology.  . Only if you exclude externalities.. I definitely don't want to make an argument for fossil fuels, but nuclear energy probably isn't the solution to our energy problems in the long run.. Isn't part of the reason why older reactors are not very cost effective and safe that, atleast in the past, the production of weapon grade plutonium was a goal besides energy production?

. > Japan reactors are much cheaper. That's partly due to regulatory differences

That's worked out well, let's do that!

. Thats because nuclear power is subsidized in france. Correlation does not equal causation. I was told in some lectures on university that nuclear plants are the "cheapest for of energy". That is to say, they can produce some low cost energy when they are operated continuously. 

Besides, they have to bid for low prices because they cannot shut down since that is not realy an option for a nuclear plant. 

That's all I know don't realy have the numbers. . The uranium in commercial nuke plant is from decommissioned nuclear weapons from the Cold War era. It is also very low enrichment. I believe ~4%. . Yeah nuclear is better than coal, but not many of our other options.. Nuclear sn coal plants are essentially fancy steam power plants.

Im not an expert but if its not a closed system, then the water needs to be discharged somewhere.. right? If that place is a river... then yeah. My lack of expertise means I dont know if therea some sort of discharge thing going on. 

My instinct says no.. since we have nuclear powered submarines and ships. And those subs and ships definitely arent onboarding seawater to pump through their shit (my ex was a nuclear tech). So their systems must be closed. 

. I’ve read that it raises the water temperature enough so that it impacts the river life . It's still worth it if it is more expensive too. Pricier electricity that leads to cleaner air is a lot better than cheap coal.. [removed]. CO2 isn’t better. There are other options that won’t leave waste on this earth for hundreds of years.. Ah the good old set of logical fallacies when faced with a statement you don't agree with but don't want to take the time to back up your conclusion.

I started to list the fallacies with your statement but gave up after 5 or 6 then realized even though this is supposed to be a science based conversation, you made a very silly general statement against a valid criticism of the data used.

Oh and by doing a quick look at your post history I'm going to make an educated guess that you are either from France or very close to that region. There are many scientific reports outlining the challenges with following the Nuclear first strategy in todays regulatory regimes. There are also articles from non US sources (since that seems to be an issue) that clearly point out the security risks of relying so heavily on nuclear power. 

Recent heat waves have caused 4-7 plants to be taken offline. The French Interior ministry already has plans to pare down as many as 16-18 reactors by 2020. Many of them are old and built in the 70's due to the oil crisis. The ones built in the 80's and 90's are better but are still seen by the general scientific community as older generation that lack too many modern safety features. A move towards renewables is the most likely scenario based on France's own government policies since new reactors are VERY expensive.

Anyway I thought to have a good Socratic debate. Since you the OP decided that was not what you wanted, I'll just leave this here.

Edit: split for readability. What about hydroelectric wind and solar.... [removed]. We should focus first on solvable problems like "clean coal" before we worry about this.. Mind = blown!. And every other fucking program, including the one OP used to make these graphs.. You got something against Excel?. Straight 0s is still data. Flair does not check out.. Of course my friend . Some say the print job is still collating. It was made at night.. A "sun" molecule is hard to come by.. Hydro is clearly the best. I really like what they're doing with the hoover dam, adding a pumping station to add an energy storage aspect to a dam with underutilised generation capacity due to not enough flow from the river. [Pumped hydro is the best.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pumped-storage_hydroelectricity)

Also, the Tesla battery that adds stability to the South Australian grid is doing awesome. You just need enough battery capacity for peak and trough shifting.. And you can build both, at the same time, to serve the niches they fit best.

The craziest thing about this world is that it’s actually really simple. We have the right solution to 9 out of 10 problems, but we are too dumb to implement them. . One question I always have is what you're supposed to do with the toxic waste nuclear generates? Sure, less CO2, but if every country went nuclear I feel like radioactive waste would become a huge problem fast.... By the time you’ve built your first power plant those storage problems would have been solved. . You still need to find a use for the power at night.

France sells it to neighboring countries, but if their neighboring countries invested heavily in nuclear, there would be issues.. Hydro is the best. Nuclear has too much waste that is harmful. Sure dams n stuff irritate habitats but that's way less than used rods. Maybe solar will become really efficient soon. . But nuclear other than being expensive is a huge safety liability in many places due to inclement weather. When the hydro system fails people don't have to relocate.. [deleted]. Considering the negative externalities of thousands of years of nuclear waste and possible fallout can hardly be quantified I'm going to disagree with your assessment.

Whatever you are going to say about the safety of nuclear power plants would have been said about Fukushima. Unfortunately fission energy has failed the test of time twice with catastrophic outcomes. And the fallout is going to continue costing lives for thousands of years.. There are good reasons for regulatory oversight.. I would say with the nuclear waste lasting potentially hundreds of thousands of years, someone else will be paying the price for it.. Now add storage concerns and nuclear power becomes the cheapest with low CO2 emissions (apart from a few selected places where renewables are exceptionally cheap).. Literally all you just showed me is that nuclear is the lowest cost per megawatt output when it comes to power sources that can be used for a base load and aren't erratic and don't produce greenhouse gases.... Did a project on nuclear power for school, looks like France is gonna lower its dependency on Nuclear Power even though it's been working well for them. The stigma behind nuclear power is real. . His book has 'similar' graphs then but I highly doubt these graphs were made properly by anyone of knowledge 
. [deleted]. The issue is that nukes are *inherently unsafe*. You have to mitigate that away with a vast array of controls. Fuck it up and you have 9/11 times 2356. 

No other energy source is this inherently unsafe.

Some people say thorium reactors don't have this issue, but we don't have any, so I don't know.  That's a lot of don'ts.... Like the CO2 in the atmosphere?. It is hard to store though. I'm in favour of Nuclear power but it needs to be respected and treated carefully. It can't just be given to the lowest bidder.

What scares people are those images of when material has been released like that time when some thieves robbed some machines from a hospital in Brazil. And with good reason, because dying like that must be horrific.. This. But, if I'm not mistaken, reprocessing nuclear waste produces Plutonium which is, among other things, the main ingredient of nuclear weaponry.

So something something Cold War 2.

God I just hope they crack fusion or thorium reactors soon. I don't know much about it but I feel Nuclear Tech is hopelessly under-researched for the benefits it could bring.. Kills a tenth of the of the other contenders, in about twenty times the time.. I think you misread my comment. [Reference here. ](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banqiao_Dam). The sad thing is that Fukushima is frequently called "nuclear catastrophe with thousands of deaths" in even mainstream media when it was an earth quake and tsunami that killed these people.

The people that died from a natural catastrophe and their deaths are being used to drive some anti nuclear agenda. 

 "Fake news" is often used wrongly but here it would apply. . That was a weapons' production site, and an recklessly managed one at that.. Obviously that's a risk, but with how safe nuclear reactors are now, it's a very low risk of radioactive exposure to the populace. Current power generation methods produce a ton health risks to the population, while the latest generation of nuclear power plants are incredibly safe and produce less radiation than coal plants.. But nuclear is “green energy” lol. We can just avoid building the plants in areas with high earthquake risk.. That’s a false equivalence, dude. If *a lot* of people had arachnophobia, we’d likely avoid making spider-powered power plants. If vertigo was common, we’d probably make fewer skyscrapers.

The problem is, arachnophobia and height-included vertigo are relatively rare, and can be managed by avoidance. Nobody is calling their congressman about spiders. Fear of nuclear power isn’t so easily avoided, and pervades a generation prone to NIMBYism. Guess what, they complain. Loudly and in great numbers.. it's not just "coal vs nuclear". Not to mention gargantuan amounts of materials needed for grid-scale energy storage with batteries.. You’re literally linking directly to a nuclear industry source.  They have an interest in making the figure for nuclear as low as possible.. I thought breeder reactors turned out to not be worth it? Not to mention the concerns about nuclear proliferation, though that's really only a concern in non-nuclear powered countries.. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yucca_Mountain_nuclear_waste_repository. For hundreds of thousands years.. And what’s the half life of non-radioactive CO2?. [deleted]. Well it could break out, get released in the athmosphere, possibly in the water supply, and then the local community living there would experience higher cancer rates.

Still worth it.. yeah! they are only failing in the "solution" part since they don't provide base load.. oh and the waste and environmental damage they are causing themselves. But at least they are frequently associated with the adjective " green ". 

/s. We already inject waste substances with far greater soil mobility into deep well sites, even when we know there is an immoderate likelihood of hydraulic conductivity between those sites and sensitive areas.  Physically, managing nuclear waste is scarcely more difficult than managing lead waste, or any other heavy metal.

The only real requirement to managing waste is not spreading it over a large area via a fire or other reckless management.  Even recklessly contaminating a small area, say an area that is innately not suited to agricultural production such as serpentine soils, is a more responsible choice that dumping other problem materials into the oceans or atmosphere.  

Coal waste releases radioactive materials to the air when burned, which then settles everywhere.  [Natural gas drilling releases radioactive waste products to surface waters during extraction.](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/marcellus-shale-natural-gas-drilling-radioactive-wastewater/)  So even if we're just picking between idiotic choices, it makes sense to choose the least idiotic option.. Hi, Energy Engineer here.

1. Yes, those components you mention (as well as some others, used hazard suits come to mind) are also radioactive and asre treated as radioactive waste. However, their radiation emission levels are much lower than the spent fuel or the nuclear reactor itself (once dismantled), and as such long term storage is not needed. It's estimated that this waste becomes safe after "just" 200 years of sitting around, so "temporary" storage is an option here.
2. This is gonna be a long one, so bear with me. Geological storage can be very safe if done correctly. Not all types of rock are suitable for it, but for example Finland does have excellent rock (high density, no seismicity expected) [and they have a nuclear graveyard up and going](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onkalo_spent_nuclear_fuel_repository), which is expected to remain stable for at least one hundred thousand years. Of course this option isn't available everywhere but some arrangements could be made between countries to store this waste in the safest place possible, regardless of national borders. But yes, as you well said, the biggest offenders (the spent fuel) can be recycled for further use in nuclear reactors. There are a myriad of chemical processes involved, and I'll leave [this link here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_reprocessing) in case you want to read more into it, but the gist of it is that yes, there are some byproducts of this reprocessing (mostly chemical), although their impact is limited. Also, this reprocessing can be misused, where the Plutonium extracted could instead be used for making atomic weapons. Also, it's more expensive than geological storage, at least for the time being (this is why it's not widespread, money > the environment).

All of this UNLESS you use the amazing CANDU nuclear reactor design. This design, from Canada, is able to use natural uranium (without the need for enrichment) as well as waste fuel coming from other nuclear plants, although this spent fuel does need to be reprocessed anyway. [Here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CANDU_reactor#Fuel_cycle)'s a more in-depth explanation of this. Notice the image on the right, it shows all the types of fuel these reactors can do😉.. I learned a bit about the second question this morning from a nuclear engineer at INPO. Currently, 96% of fuel can be recycled while the other 4% is materials they do not want to deal with and stored underground or in facilities. France and Japan currently do this, however, the US doesn't due to an older policy meant to lower nuclear weapon proliferation. As politics tend to go the policy has never been revisited. What surprised me was how little waste there currently is. Even with the US not recycling the 96% the total amount of spent fuel from the past 50 years would be the length of a football field  and 3 metres high. On my phone or I would try to find sources to back it up.  . 1. AFAIK, the things that might need to get replaced that are not the fuel rods are constructed for longevity and shouldn't need to be replaced for decades if constructed and designed properly. As for the power plants, besides the fuel rods not a ton is radioactive AFAIK. Once the radioactive waste and fuel rods are removed, it is relatively easy to clean up everything else.

2. The technology for reusing or at least disposing of radioactive waste wasn't developed until relatively recently, well after nuclear power plants have been constructed and in use. After all the stuff with 3 Mile Island and Chernobyl, nuclear power kind of got this massive stigma against it. In the US at least, there's not a lot of public support for nuclear power, not to mention all the regulations and red tape one has to go through to even get such projects considered, and in this political climate, I highly doubt any sort of project that even mentions 'nuclear' will get any kind of significant funding. In terms of efficiency, AFAIK certain types of reactors can have pretty much 99% of their waste recycled into usable fuel for other types of reactors, some reactors produce fuel as they operate, and there are some types of waste we thought was pure waste turns out to be recyclable. All of this stuff has caveats: cost concerns, scaleability concerns, etc. 

tl;dr, most of the concerns are political and financial, not scientific. Obviously nuclear power isn't perfect and there are still problems that scientists are working out, but for the most part nuclear waste is not a big concern anymore, not for modern reactors and recycling facilities. The main issue is how expensive some of this stuff is and getting approval(at least in the US) to build this stuff. 

Disclaimer: I am by no means an expert in this stuff, this is all based off of my own personal interest in nuclear power and research I did in high school so my info is probably all out of date. If I am wrong anywhere, someone please correct me.. Sorry, I was on my phone when I typed that. Here's an NYT article on it: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/09/science/nuclear-reactor-waste-finland.html. I never said anything about coal, so I don't know why you even said that?

Once again, though, nuclear waste is not an engineering problem.  It is the result of political issues. [See here for an excellent description of the issue](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/7v76v4/what_is_something_that_sounds_extremely_wrong_but/dtqd9ey/?context=3)

It's not short sighted thinking.  

Renewables also generate orders of magnitude more toxic waste in production & retirement.  Pushing for PV arrays everywhere with a 25 year lifespan tops is shortsighted thinking.  It doesn't scale the way people want it to.  

Nuclear does, and then some.  Its the safest and greenest solution we have by a huge margin.  [Nuclear produces 1/4 of the GHG's that solar panels do](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life-cycle_greenhouse-gas_emissions_of_energy_sources), [PV has orders of magnitude more toxic wastes like lead, cadmium, with minimal oversight on disposal unlike nuclear](https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelshellenberger/2018/05/23/if-solar-panels-are-so-clean-why-do-they-produce-so-much-toxic-waste/#165645c7121c), and [solar panels kill 4000 times more people per kwh](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2012/06/10/energys-deathprint-a-price-always-paid/#54c865c0709b).  Pushing away from nuclear because it's "scary" and "omg waste" without actually understanding the technology is probably the single most environmentally detrimental mistake of our time.  

I'm an environmental engineer, my career thus far has been spent cleaning up our waters and making energy efficiency gains in a variety of contexts.  I've analyzed powerplants... and I am 100% pro-nuclear.  The craze over PV without accounting for their true costs is nearly as short sighted as burning fossil fuels.   
. >which were caused by safety measures being ignored

This is true but if you look into the reactor design at Chernobyl, it's just a scary bad design. It was susceptible to thermal runaway, where the hotter it got, the more reactive it got, causing more heat ect.. Correct. > but nuclear energy probably isn't the solution to our energy problems in the long run.

Why do you think so?. Weapons grade is going to be 90% (enriched) pure or more. That's also what nuclear subs run on, and they can go 20 years before they need to refuel.

Nuclear power plant fuel is only between 2-4% pure and they need to he refueled every 18 to 24 months.

Nuclear power plants do not enrich uranium. . You couldn't be more wrong. The opposite is true. In Germany renewables are subsidized by higher energy cost. It amounts to 20-30 Billion euros a year. Google EEG Umlage (renewable energy sources act surcharge which is almost 7 ct/kWh or something like 30% of what I pay)....... 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Renewable_Energy_Sources_Act

So many people with an agenda making halfbaked kneejerk comments on here. . Maybe, but look at it this way : it's possible to have relatively cheap energy for the consumer without dumping massive amount of CO2 into the atmosphere.

&#x200B;

As for the issue of the waste, it can be proven that the dangerous waste (the ones that emits a lot of radiation in a short time) become relatively harmless in a few decades, while you do not have to worry a lot about slow decaying waste as it does not emit radiation at a rate harmful for living beings lifespan (in the order of decades). Still true it requires additional infrastructure. But we're in a position where we have to find the lesser of several evils. 

&#x200B;

Renewable energies are awfully bad in production efficiency, without taking into account the issue of the recycling and the production costs. Look into the equivalent area of solar panels to replace a nuclear power plant, IF you make the hypothesis that solar panel can supply electricity at a constant rate, day AND night, whatever the meteorological conditions. 

&#x200B;

I think the real downside is still the issue of the supply, as you are reliant on the raw uranium producers.. Well, Wikipedia says:

> Fuel costs account for about 28% of a nuclear plant's operating expenses. As of 2013, half the cost of reactor fuel was taken up by enrichment and fabrication, so that the cost of the uranium concentrate raw material was 14 percent of operating costs.

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economics_of_nuclear_power_plants#Fuel_costs

I'm looking for a similar number for coal-fired plants. My google-fu must be weak, I'm not finding anything obvious. There's a [graph here that shows coal costing about $22-23 per megawatt hour.](https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=28832) I have no idea how to convert that to a number comparable with the above figure for uranium.. >Yeah nuclear is better than coal, but not many of our other options [are better than coal] .

that's the first good comment you make on here. mr one million down votes. > the water needs to be discharged somewhere.. right?

The excess heat which is not used for generating electricity has to be discharged - not necessarily the water.

Nuclear plants use two to three [liquid cycles with heat exchangers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_power_plant#/media/File:PressurizedWaterReactor.gif).

The coolest loop could be plugged into a river, but as far as I know, it commonly is plugged into a [Cooling Tower](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cooling_tower).

Nuclear plant with cooling tower: [Image from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_power_plant#/media/File:Kerncentrale_Doel_in_werking.jpg)

I don't know about military vessels, they have very different constraints.. The water used to create steam and power is a closed loop, the water used to scrub heat from the condenser is usually an open system. Every steam generating power plant (coal, gas combined cycle, and nuclear) takes water from a water source and discharges water to varying degrees.  Nuclear power plants, especially BWRs, are notoriously inefficient at converting heat energy into electrical work so they heat up lakes and rivers more per MW than coal plants and MUCH more than gas cc.  Aside from heat all plants are held to a similar standard as far as chemicals and radioactivity goes so the vast majority of nuclear water discharges are just as clean as any other power plant, only maybe a bit warmer.. I googled a source for you:

http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/current-and-future-generation/cooling-power-plants.aspx

On the context menu to the right, you can navigate to a few relevant sections:

* **Direct or once-through wet cooling**: This is what you meant.
* **Recirculating or indirect wet cooling**: This is what we have at our river
* **Environmental and social aspects of cooling**: Yes, there is harm done.. [deleted]. I would also like to point out that the only way IMO to address power consumption growth rates is to have an 'all of the above' approach to power generation. 

Not just pie in the sky 'cover Nevada or the Sahara in wind or solar farms' but how about we start by converting/retrofitting existing BAD coal plants. into natural gas. It cuts emmissions per plant by 50-60%, is WAY less costly than building a new plant of any sort, and starts the downward trend immediately instead of 5-10 years down the road.

All of this while we still work to prove out new technologies that can fit in the gaps. You just can't replace 80%+ of the world's power generation (latest number from fossil fuels) by discounting them entirely.. Security risks? Come and grab some of this spent fuel, you won't make it 10 yards before you drop dead. It's a self correcting problem.. Hydroelectric only works near large rivers.


The other two aren’t baseload power sources. . I thought that problem was solved. You just mine the coal and wash each lump with soap and water before sending it off to the power plant.. [removed]. Or you could just remove it from the other graph... . Um what?. Hydro is great where it's possible, but you need a fast moving river that you are willing to dam, devastating the river's ecosystem. That doesn't exist everywhere.. Dams must have a larger negative impact on the local environment than a nuclear plant, though.. In June 2023, I left reddit due to [the mess around spez and API fees](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/reddit-api-changes-explained/).

I moved with many others to lemmy! A community owned, distributed, free and open source software where no single person or group can force people to change platform. https://join-lemmy.org/

All my previous reddit subs have found a replacement in lemmy communities and we're growing fast every day. Thanks for the boost, spez!. Hydro has an ecological cost far beyond that of nuclear, and beyond what you likely know. I would not be so hasty to call it ‘best’.. "The relatively low energy density of pumped storage systems requires either large flows and/or large differences in height between reservoirs. The only way to store a significant amount of energy is by having a large body of water located relatively near, but as high above as possible, a second body of water."

-wikipedia

Storing hot thermal salts is also a viable option where the geography is not ideal. Hydro doesn’t reduce emissions in most cases. 

It usually floods vegetation, which goes on to rot for decades, emitting methane and negating the goal of reduced GHGs. . Also this: [Hydro storage sites in south Australia ](http://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2017-06-16/pumped-hydro-sites-identified-in-sa/8623758). Those kindnof batteries are not sustainable for the next 150 years. . It really wouldn't.

Even if we continue to store high level waste as we do now in the US, which is possibly the worst option, plants that have been running for 30-40 years with two units have spent fuel yards that aren't even halfway filled, and these yards aren't exactly as huge as you might think. I worked at a nuclear plant for a few years and one of my jobs was managing spent nuclear fuel.. The volume of waste would still be small and fairly easy to manage even if it were an order of magnitude or more greater.  The main reason for public trepidation is mainly our poor capacity for risk assessment.

There are chunks of protocontinents from the Archaean still existing on this planet.  We have the geotechnical capability of reliably identifying landscapes that aren't likely to change much in a mere million years.

In a properly functioning and designed storage facility, you could literally fall into a cooling pond and actually be receiving slightly less radiation than when you were standing on the observation gantry.  Safe handling of nuclear materials is not rocket engineering.  . One question I always have is what you're supposed to do with the toxic waste renewables generate?

Yes they do - chemical waste. Unlike nuclear waste chemical waste doesn't go away over time, and unlike nuclear waste it is much more. The fact that nuclear waste "stays dangerous for x years" is an *advantage* - it doesn't stay dangerous forever. We can also get rid of almost all of it via transmutation.. Modern nuclear reactor designs are much more efficient about extracting energy from fuel and therefore generate a much smaller quantity of waste per quantity of generated power. In terms of where to store it, the United States has a clear solution for this: Nevada. The Yucaa Mountain Nuclear Waste facility would provide a safe location for long term waste storage for more than long enough to allow us to transition from fossil fuels -> renewables and nuclear -> renewables.. In June 2023, I left reddit due to [the mess around spez and API fees](https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/reddit-api-changes-explained/).

I moved with many others to lemmy! A community owned, distributed, free and open source software where no single person or group can force people to change platform. https://join-lemmy.org/

All my previous reddit subs have found a replacement in lemmy communities and we're growing fast every day. Thanks for the boost, spez!. The amount of waste is so small compared to the amount of surface area needed for solar.  Not that its exactly the same but we have plenty of wastelands and deserts that have no other use.  Technologies have advanced and we get less waste and can store it better than 50 years ago.  Everyone keeps talking about thorium reactors that create significantly less waste but theres no real action from governments on them.

Coal plants also produce a lot of toxic waste, we saw some of it end up in rivers after the hurricane in the Carolinas.

The real problem with nuclear is everyone is irrationally afraid of them blowing up and giving them cancer, while fossil fuel plants spew all kinds of toxic stuff in the air that causes cancer.  Theres no political will behind nuclear because solar is the flashy new thing for liberals and the establishment has put in their lot with fossil fuel lobbyists.  With nuclear the plants are often state financed and the price of energy is regulated, so there isn't anywhere to make huge amounts of money.. [deleted]. I think some of it get used by scientists to produce heavy elements, and the rest gets buried deep in the earth in desert areas where it won't contaminate water supplies. 

This is just of the top of my head head so I may be wrong.. Great question. [This is what has happened in my part of the world.](https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/south-pacific/99300184/a-nuclear-waste-dump-in-the-pacific-ocean-is-leaking--and-climate-change-is-to-blame)

Also seriously watch episode 2 of Dark Tourist on Netflix.. There are people who are working on methods to transmute the material into \*more\* radioactive waste (so that you only have to store it for a shorter amount of time). . >Hydro is the best.

Not true.

>Nuclear has too much waste that is harmful.

Not true.

>Sure dams n stuff irritate habitats but that's way less than used rods.

Not true.

>Maybe solar will become really efficient soon.

Not true at night.. ....how is nuclear a huge safety issue in inclement weather? Fukishima was an old reactor that was hit by an earthquake and then a tsunami and still didn't go "critical.". Uhh when hydro systems fail it's also a disaster bud.. Yeah, it can provided you dig a deep enough hole and it's properly sealed.

And if you read slower, you'll see I said "better ways" yet you're trying to say that I said there are no ways to store it. We need better capacitance tech and passive storage systems. 

Maybe instead of trying to score cheap semantic points about a topic you clearly know nothing about (radiation physics), you should do some basic research before getting smarmy. . You could say the same for power generation that uses hydrocarbons as its fuel source. The effects are just more diluted but far more pervasive.

Also, regarding the waste - that's not how that works anymore. It's not particularly huge quantities and there are more modern processes that can reuse the fuel many times over. It's literally orders of magnitude less waste/pollution than hydrocarbon power generation. Not to say that it isn't dangerous, concerning, etc.. Definitely!  The process though really needs an overhaul/update from what I understand.. Absolutely. Nobody (certainly nobody in the nuclear industry!) wants to abolish oversight. It needs to be the right level and type of oversight, though.. Thorium fuel cycles can reduce waste half lives by orders of magnitude. That plus reprocessing and super deep burials makes the waste issue much less of an issue than it is now. . Geothermal and hydro are definitely stable enough to use as a base load. I say this living in an area where hydro is the main electricity producer.  The main problems are that building a dam is terrible for things live in rivers and is pretty expensive initially, and that geothermal isn't really practical everywhere (and can cause earthquakes).

Quick edit: not arguing against nuclear, I think it's great. Just wanted to nitpick a little.. This isn't a problem. It's a talking point. Even with battery storage PV is cheaper than nuclear.. I was in France during their last election and that shit right there was bothering me so much. The no nuclear argument was the most popular and several politicians had this as one of their campaign pillars. Very disappointing.. maybe there is more to it than just "muh stigma". Anyone of some knowledge was me.    
properly, arguably not.   
I used [this](https://co2scorecard.org/countrydata/trendchart) and made the mistake of not selecting systematically the same countries (and leaving the tool set the time axis bu default, which is different depending on the data set).. But, if I'm understanding you correctly, that is what I'm saying. As you say, it's 3 am on a still night, or maybe it's just a quiet overcast day, where does your power come from? In the "less emission" family you have either geothermal, hydro or storage... Or nuclear. So what if you live in a place where geothermal and hydro aren't an option? How do you meet these policy goals cheaply enough?. > your power input is actually going to be pretty predictable

Just an armchair energy analyst here, but that hasn't been our experience in Australia. You can see our wind farms spread out over the south-east of the country spanning several thousand kms: https://anero.id/energy/wind-energy  
  
if you have a look at [the monthly data](https://anero.id/energy/wind-energy/2018/september) it's basically chaotic except for when a high-pressure system moves over and production plummets across the network.  
  
You can 'smooth' out production if you span a large enough geographical area, but then you're looking at monstrous costs from constructing 10's of thousands of kms of HV transmission lines.  
  
. This guy base-loads.. Very much unlike the CO2 in the atmosphere. The concentration of CO2 in the air is pretty low, making it difficult to extract and concentrate the carbon to a degree where you can efficiently convert it into methane.. > It is hard to store though.

It's really not, it's only the politics of storing it that are painful. 

All the spent fuel produced by the nuclear power industry since the 1950's would cover a football field < 10 yards deep. There simply isn't much waste produced and if we had 1 or 2 storage locations of even moderate size it would cover us for hundreds of years. And that's without accounting for the ability of newer reactor designs to burn spent fuel.


. In France Plutonium is extracted from wastes to make new fuel rods.. Plutonium is actually produced as fuel is "burned" in the reactor. (US light water moderated commercial plants). I think the governement put a moritorium on recycling fuel here because of the fear of proliferation. It can absolutely be recycled and reused though.. Believe it or not, you're UNDERSTATING how safe nuclear is. 

.1*(1/20) = .005

So you're claiming that nuclear is 200 times safer than other sources. HOWEVER, only hydroelectric is within that range or even close. 

[According to this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_accidents) hydroelectricity is safer than global nuclear electricity, but kills 50 times as many people compared with nuclear energy produced in the US. Compared to US nuclear, US coal produces 100,000 times as many deaths per energy than US nuclear. . Oops, sorry. . What guarantee do we have that future power plants would not be recklessly managed? Just look at how reckless the fossil fuel industry is (e.g. deepwater horizon). Going full nuclear would also require a cultural change in the way power companies operate. It is.. Which is why I was talking about fossil fuels in general. I only said one thing that was specific to coal. When you only address one point of many a person said you look disingenuous. . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life-cycle_greenhouse-gas_emissions_of_energy_sources#2014_IPCC.2C_Global_warming_potential_of_selected_electricity_sources

http://energyforhumanity.org/en/briefings/carbon-emissions/lifecycle-carbon-emissions-of-electricity-generation-sources/

. yeh that's news to me but doesn't surprise. still, that it can be done is promising. eventually it will be economical.. Or for a few years until we turn it into more fuel.. Are you saying there are no places where fuel could be safe for millions of years?
Just a 2min brainstorm: Subduction zones. Or we shoot it into the sun.
. The diagram on [the wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_cycle) suggest a fair portion of atmospheric CO2 is replaced every year. Although the part we might be able to stop only accounts for around 1% of CO2 each year, that suggest a half life somewhere on the order of a few centuries if we only look at the human contribution, but it's complicated. . Yup ... I'll take the 26,000 year stuff over the 260 year stuff anyday.. The scary thing is that even if something like this would somehow happen every now and then, it still seems to be better in the long term than burning coal.. You mean it could make its way to where the CO2 already is and causing warming of the climate, extreme weather, natural catastrophes that kill people. Oh no, we should be sweating at the small likelihood of that happening. . Jeah, the waste a windmill causes is incredible. . Pretty much the whole primary system, the reactor vessel, any piping, steam generators in a PWR or even the turbine in a BWR is going to be contaminated. There are ways to decontaminate this stuff, for example one way I've seen is using lasers to effectively vaporize any contamination into inert gas.. Yeah, that's because Chernobyl was an old reactor with a positive void coefficient (during the Cold War IIRC).  More modern nuclear reactors with a negative void coefficient stop themselves when they start failing like that, rather than starting a runaway reaction.  

And then Fukushima was caused because someone ignored warnings that putting the backup generators/pumps that keep reactors running properly below sea-level was a bad idea.  And that's in addition to the initial bad idea of making a reactor in an area prone to tsunamis and earthquakes.  And even with all of those factors, it only failed because it got hit with a massive tsunami *and* a massive earthquake.  And even still, the fallout was pretty minimal overall.

And Three Mile Island was the result of a bad sensor on a valve (that the manufacturer *knew* was bad but chose not to inform the nuclear power company) combined with operators who didn't understand what was going wrong and were too shy to contact someone who knew what they were doing.  And even then, the fallout was pretty negligible.  

Nuclear power is incredibly safe, it's just that a couple idiots doing actively stupid things gives the rest of the industry a bad name.  . Finite fissle material. If we can get fusion down it might help.. Nuclear is not the cheapest.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cost_of_electricity_by_source. National Security risks as in over dependence on one source of energy. A nation's overall security depends on many factors including it's ability to self correct for both internal and external economic manipulation. The original reasons for going nuclear in France was because their overdepndence on fossil fuels back in the 70's caused major issues. Now their National Security is once again faced with power source that is overly dependant on fuel sources France as a nation does not actually produce within its own national boundaries. Diversification isn't just a good idea for the environment, it's critical in a world where sometimes bad people do bad things.

Having some experience in US/Eruo Nuclear sight security, I am really not concerned with bad actors in relation to actual physical plant security. Cybersecurity is a completely different issue.. And, in addition to only working near large rivers, hydroelectric requires specific geography (a deep enough area to dam up) and causes massive ecological devastation to the area.  Not to mention that hydroelectric causes even more massive loss of life than nuclear when it fails.  . I mean it’s a perfectly fine spreadsheet. It just makes superfugly plots unless you put a LOT of effort in manually styling them. 
. Can you elaborate on why, and tell me what programs you prefer? 

Since this could easily be read as confrontational, I'll just go ahead and say I'm simply curious.. Why?! That would be cherry picking. It's good as it is. No nuclear reactors, a lot of CO2 emissions as a consequence. Nothing is wrong with this.. How you doing optics and photonics mr colorblind. >a fast moving river

&#x200B;

I think you need a lot of momentum. That can be a fast moving river like you say, or it can be a slow moving, huge mass of water.

The speed at which the water moves also depends on height difference, so you can maximize potential by

* increase fall height
* increase mass (river depth and width)
* increase speed

&#x200B;. [Would love to have investment in this ](http://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2017-06-16/pumped-hydro-sites-identified-in-sa/8623758). Yeah, Hydro has significant ecological costs that pretty much disqualify it from being considered "green" in most situations IMO. It also is often simply not an option, much like geothermal, solar or wind power, based on geographical factors.. [I disagree.](https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/south-pacific/99300184/a-nuclear-waste-dump-in-the-pacific-ocean-is-leaking--and-climate-change-is-to-blame)

Have a watch of "Dark Tourist" episode 2 on Netflix.. I dont believe that for a second. They create new eco systems that take as much carbon as they give out. Itaipu saves over half a million barrels of oil a day.. If only we had a way to cut down vegetation before flooding reservoirs. This is an issue in hot climates, not so much in cooler climates. It is also highly dependent on the energy density of the reservoir.

Edit: downvoted for whatever reason so two sources to support this point:

https://www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/ar4/wg3/en/ch4s4-3-3-1.html

https://www.nature.com/articles/ngeo1211. You got a source for that claim?. What kinds of chemical waste do renewables generate, which renewables, and how? I feel like something like wind power would be pretty waste free (ofc it causes some issues with birds and other things). > In terms of where to store it, the United States has a clear solution for this

or the WIPP: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waste_Isolation_Pilot_Plant. Perfectly fair. Thought of this almost immediately. (And upvote for you for the sick burn). shifting goalposts

we're talking about renewables, not coal. I see, I didn't know much about this from a policy standpoint. It makes sense that public opinion would be a huge factor, considering people being afraid of anything labeled "nuclear" in the wake of nuclear bombs being a thing. 
Seems like a shame considering the tech already exists and the waste volume is low.. > Thorium?

Still produces nuclear waste. Both in small amounts, however.. Thorium is widely considered a no-go because it's way too easy to make weapons with byproducts of its nuclear cycle.. In the United states there is currently no place to store nuclear waste from plants. It was supposed to be Yucca mountain but that probably won’t happen. Most is stored on site right now.  . Holy shit, well if I wasn't scared enough about climate change already.... This is a big problem that I have with both nuclear power and the modern expectation of limitless energy. If we continue with the USA energy lifestyle, and went to nuclear, there would be so much radioactive waste that we would reasonably expect to see even greater reductions in lifespan. 

If folks could severely curtail their energy use we could use nuclear as a backup, but regardless of source, ultimately the expectations of limitless energy have got to die. The problem is more than the source of energy. The demand for energy is a what drives the existence of the energy source! . Wait. If Hydro isn't he best then why are countries constantly building dams? You can't just say not true without any backing. I understand your online tag has nuclear physics on it but I doubt that you are, after all it's the internet. [deleted]. Sounds good. But I think with solar and wind continually getting cheaper, they are going to be our mainstays soon. We should just build some large pumped hydro systems for the batteries.

I'm lucky in NZ, we've got lots of hydro and geothermal, so I'm only installing a 1.2kWp DC solar system for the hotwater cylinder at my parent's place for offsetting power they would have otherwise paid full price for (25c/kWh).. Also, if there's no damable river around. That's a ludicrously wild claim to make without evidence.. [https://arstechnica.com/science/2018/10/company-that-sucks-co2-from-air-announces-a-new-methane-producing-plant/](https://arstechnica.com/science/2018/10/company-that-sucks-co2-from-air-announces-a-new-methane-producing-plant/). Thanks for the data. Have you ever been to a nuclear power plant? That cultural change happened years ago. You can't change a lightbulb on a nuclear site without a hundred man hours of safety justification work. Those options are already mismanaged and are even more hazardous.  Burning coal releases radioactive materials that are then scattered across the landscape.  Extraction of natural gas from the ground generates copious amounts of wastewater that releases radioactive materials into surface waters.  

Nuclear waste goes in a vessel.  Even if it leaks into a soil, if it has the right mineralogy and pH, it wouldn't travel much farther than lead paint would under parallel circumstances.  If we can manage storing old lead paint waste with virtually no oversight, then we can manage nuclear waste with even just moderate oversight.  
. Yeah, so green it glows lol. 

Whenever I think of green energy, radioactive decay always comes to mind. . it's not just "nuclear vs fossil"

When you only address one kind of energy-source* of many a person said you look disingenuous. 

\*the non-renewable kind. Those years-old sources aren't sufficient to combat my source, which at any rate is projecting GHG intensity in the near future given realistic assumptions.. Shoot it into the sun?

Extremely difficult due to the immense amounts of speed you have to decrease, unless you do a gravity assist at Jupiter or something. And that’s ignoring that there is no 100% launch success rate for any rocket, so we would never launch a payload of nuclear waste, ever.. It actually takes more energy to reach the sun than it does to escape the solar system entirely!

The Earth is already orbiting at ~30kms while solar escape velocity is ~42kms, so only ~12kms is needed to escape the solar system. Meanwhile we'd have to cancel out most of the orbital velocity in order to 'fall' down to sun, so more than twice the delta-v is needed.

Despite the brief tangent, there are suitable sites here on Earth for storing the waste for that length of time, though one of the major problems is communicating to potential future civilisations not to dig there!. > Or we shoot it into the sun

[Like this?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BSr4hUcROwo&t=4m12s). The problem with shooting it into the sun is that sometimes rockets blow up when launched. And then all that radioactive material comes falling back to Earth . Lifting things into orbit is REALLY expensive. Not just hurts-bottom-line expensive, but need-a-real-good-justification expensive.. Lol, "shoot it into the sun" :D. >it’s complicated 

My point exactly. Radioactive waste is also complicated, and certain isotopes are more short lived than others. What’s paradoxical is that the most dangerous isotopes are the ones that decay the *fastest*. The ones that’s stick around longer are generally the less dangerous ones. The longer the half life, the less radioactive they are. . A "windmill" typically needs "only" 1000 kg of Neodymium and Dysprosium, b are rare earth metals. . We have a hundred years of uranium left. Our reactors are becoming ever more efficient and Gen. IV reactors that are being researched can use their own waste, stretching that hundred years to thousands. Also, some Gen IV reactors should be able to use thorium, of which we have thousands of years worth. . Yes, nuke plants cost a lot more to build because of the cost of building reactors. Which are much more complicated than boilers.

That wasn't my question. I wanted to know what the cost of *fuel* per megawatt produced is.. If you're in physics and making publication quality plots, you're probably doing it with root, python, or even pure LaTeX if you hate yourself. Excel makes your plots look like they were made by a 6th grader in their "how to use Microsoft products" class. . [removed]. Theoretical physicist, homie. I get to choose my own wavelengths on the computer. . Two different usernames. . > It also is often simply not an option

That is a very strong point, lol.

The rest is true as well, thanks.. "but but it runs with water like plants so it green" /s. So we’re comparing modern storage to the dumb things we did in the 70s?

I mean that whole mess is the result of detonating hundreds of nuclear warheads in the atmosphere, so it’s not surprising that the shoddy solution to their problem isn’t holding up.

Nobody’s claiming that nuclear has a perfect record, but even when including the nuclear accidents and spills of the past, nuclear is safer and better for the environment than hydro.. As a green house gas methane is far worse than carbon in terms of radiation absorbed, but much better in terms of the amount of time it spends in the atmosphere (I think it’s roughly 1/10th as long?).

[Here’s an article on it](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn7046-hydroelectric-powers-dirty-secret-revealed/), but really look around and find out.

It’s not equally true for all projects. I first heard this claim from Douglas Adams, who said there were two notable exceptions to the problem. I think one was the Hoover dam, and the other was maybe Grand Coolie or something. 

Whatever the exceptions, I’m pretty sure they were dams that flooded desert areas with less vegetation and more sand and rock. . That would definitely help, to deforest the land that’ll flood. Which illustrates another counterproductive aspect: destroying vegetation removes the carbon sink value, granted it’s probably not huge for any individual hydroelectric plant.

A bigger problem is it’s not just trees, all plant material, and I think even the soil itself maybe, could contribute too. Though I’d expect trees would be the bulk of it.. That’s interesting, how does the temperature of the climate affect it? And what affects the energy density of a reservoir, the height?. 15.000.000 metric tons reserve of lithium
200.000 metric tons current use of lithium.
15.000.000/200.000 = 60 years. My bad

Source= statista website. Because of a bug I can't copy paste the link. I'd have to restart my phone for that(weird lineage bug) but just google it. . There's a lot of industrial waste that goes into manufacturing renewable energy sources.  Manufacturing solar cells involves a lot of nasty chemicals.  And wind turbines aren't quite as bad, but it's still industrial manufacturing which isn't clean as a general rule.  

And both of them have such low energy density that you need to do a massive amount of manufacturing to provide sufficient power for everyone.  They also require a lot of surface area to function too, which tends to cause environmental problems too.  . [deleted]. Fair point, but I didn't shift the goalpost.

[World total primary energy consumption by fuel in 2015](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_energy_consumption): 

* 33% oil
* 30% coal
* 24% natural gas
* 7% hydro
* 4% nuclear
* 2% other renewables

Those 87% fossil fuels are the elephant in the room which we cannot talk past. I'm honestly surprised and shocked how much it is. I thought renewables were more relevant.

I didn't mean to shift a goalpost and you are right, I didn't pay attention to what we were talking about in this particular part of the thread.

My goalpost is that our grandchildren should have a world which is similar to ours, for which we need to almost stop burning fossil fuels *as soon as possible*. Which means as cheap as possible, as independent from geographic locations as possible.. Since when?

As I understand, it requires, only during startup, a very small amount of weaponizable uranium, but none of the daughter products of the thorium and uranium decay chains are weaponizable.

Weapons use U-238 and Pu-239, and as I understand, LFTRs can start with U-235, or some other neutron source, but leaves *less* waste, none of which is weaponizable, and all of which is mixed in a salt medium that takes the same role as a moderator.. The opposite was the case.

The uranium cycle was historically favored because it is easier to make weapons from it. Governments thought: Research once, profit twice (power + weapons) during the cold war.

"A nuclear reactor consumes certain specific fissile isotopes to produce energy. The three most practical types of nuclear reactor fuel are:

* Uranium-235, purified (i.e. "enriched") by reducing the amount of uranium-238 in natural mined uranium. Most nuclear power has been generated using low-enriched uranium (LEU), whereas high-enriched uranium (HEU) is necessary for **weapons**.
* Plutonium-239, transmuted from uranium-238 obtained from natural mined uranium. Plutonium is also used for **weapons**.
* Uranium-233, transmuted from **thorium**-232, derived from natural mined thorium.
" ([Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thorium-based_nuclear_power))

So there is thorium, and there is stuff from which you can make weapons (overly simplified).

"Possible benefits" of that article lists:

* **It is difficult to make a practical nuclear bomb from a thorium reactor's byproducts.** According to Alvin Radkowsky, designer of the world's first full-scale atomic electric power plant, "a thorium reactor's plutonium production rate would be less than 2 percent of that of a standard reactor, and the plutonium's isotopic content would make it unsuitable for a nuclear detonation."[14]:11[20] Several uranium-233 bombs have been tested, but the presence of uranium-232 tended to "poison" the uranium-233 in two ways: intense radiation from the uranium-232 made the material difficult to handle, and the uranium-232 led to possible pre-detonation. Separating the uranium-232 from the uranium-233 proved very difficult, although newer laser techniques could facilitate that process.

The only reason I started this comment with "was" instead of "is" is that I noticed a recent whistleblower story of 2018 which suggests bombs from thorium. I don't know much about it, I have never heard something like that before. Nukes are commonly made from uranium and it's cycle's byproducts.. >If Hydro isn't he best then why are countries constantly building dams?

That’s a non sequiteur. We’re constantly drilling for oil and natural gas, and mining for coal, so clearly fossil fuels are the best.

>You can't just say not true without any backing. 

So why do you think that you can say “Hydro is the best” without any backing, or apparently any understanding of how these things work?

>I understand your online tag has nuclear physics on it but I doubt that you are, after all it's the internet

Then you are incorrect yet again. Also, you may want to learn the difference between a nuclear physicist and a nuclear engineer.. Batteries do have an extreme downside in that can't store all the energy we need them to store to solely switch to renewables. Also, their mining and manufacturing is pretty ecologically devastating. 

Nuclear waste is only an issue to the ignorant tards that think nuclear reactors are unsafe to begin with. We know how to properly store and dispose of the waste.

My original point wasn't semantic at all. It clearly outlined why we need nuclear power to supplement wind and solar. Then you came in, tried to talk shit, got called out, then started bitching about it.

It's funny, in your past comments you tell people to do research before commenting and you clearly don't take that advice yourself. I'd say you're a troll but your posts just kinda make you to be this really sad person that's angry with everyone. 

> Uneducated kid

I'm a physicist, as are a decent amount of people in this sub. That's why I understand radiation physics and nuclear power. You'd do well to take some courses in radiation physics. It might serve to make you see how woefully incorrect you are. . The biggest issue is energy density. You need way more space to produce energy via renewables than you do nuclear. If you have a solar farm you need the farm then maybe a huge hydro lake battery. Why not just build one 1000MWe nuke plant without worry of wind or clouds.. Lead paint doesnt leave the ground literally uninhabitable for decades though. Im not vouching for coal or oil but im saying that our energy problems stem from a lack of proper oversight and management. Theres a reason mr burns as a character exists. . So it's not "green" because it doesn't feel green to you?. > When you only address one kind of energy-source* of many a person said you look disingenuous.
> 
> 
> 
> *the non-renewable kind

Yes, the one kind of energy source comprised of multiple energy sources.

I was making the point that nuclear is safer than the sources (yes, multiple) that provide the majority of US energy production. 

[Here's some additional info on how safe nuclear, especially US nuclear, is compared to other sources, including the renewable kind](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_accidents). There hasn't been a newer study than that. . Not to mention how expensive it is to launch things into space, and how heavy spent fuel is.. Not saying that we would launch nuclear waste into space (there are a lot of reasons not to) but we have launched nuclear materials into space before. Just about every space mission to Jupiter and beyond, as well as many other missions have launched with RTGs that use balls of radioactive material as a source of heat/electricity. . As we are just getting rid of waste, there's no time limit, and we can just shoot to the sun via outer space with pretty much the escape velocity delta-v. But why do that when we can just shoot the waste to outer space.. No no, the ones we shoot to the sun shouldn't blow up while it's near the Earth.. But one is stored away from the environment at large, the other is stored in literally the air we breathe . You right . You're asking the wrong guy. But it's also irrelevant. What matters in terms of the cost is the overall cost per energy unit. If you're interested in fuel costs, wind, hydro, solar and geothermal are all the cheapest.. Understood, and thanks! . Ok that's very interesting, and I do agree about the formula bar. I'm learning VBA for Excel, have you ever used that? I'm planning on learning python soon after that (I'm going to be starting a data science boot camp and excel is the first part, specifically VBA so I' trying to get a head start). I'm still pretty new to it but it is better as far as the issues you mentioned. Obviously I can't compare it to python (at least not yet!). . Pah, real scientists check the wavelength of their lasers by eye.

In other news, did anyone note a sharp increase in blind physicists since the 70s?. It was all modern and "perfectly safe" at one point.. Yeah I know about methane. Like all Hydrocarbons it's short lived as it oxidises in sunlight.. > how does the temperature of the climate affect it?

The microorganisms which decompose matter need a certain temperature range in which they can live.

If you go below, they stop. I guess it's the same reason why refrigeration keeps food from rotting.. Energy density in terms of the area of the reservoir, rather than drop. The depth of the reservoir affects the emission of GHG as a shallower, wider, reservoir covers a greater area of vegetation that is decomposed. The more anaerobically decomposed biomass the more GHG released. Consequently for two reserviors of the same size with differing head heights, the greater head height will have a lower rate of emission per W. See the IPCC source [here](https://www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/ar4/wg3/en/ch4s4-3-3-1.html).


Climate probably influences the amount of biomass and the rate of decomposition.

The relevant paper for this point is [https://www.nature.com/articles/ngeo1211](https://www.nature.com/articles/ngeo1211), abstract below:

> Hydroelectric reservoirs cover an area of 3.4×105 km2 and comprise about 20% of all reservoirs. In addition, they contain large stores of formerly terrestrial organic carbon. Significant amounts of greenhouse gases are emitted2, especially in the early years following reservoir creation, but the global extent of these emissions is poorly known. Previous estimates of emissions from all types of reservoir indicate that these human-made systems emit 321 Tg of carbon per year (ref. 4). Here we assess the emissions of carbon dioxide and methane from hydroelectric reservoirs, on the basis of data from 85 globally distributed hydroelectric reservoirs that account for 20% of the global area of these systems. We relate the emissions to reservoir age, location biome, morphometric features and chemical status. We estimate that hydroelectric reservoirs emit about 48 Tg C as CO2 and 3 Tg C as CH4, corresponding to 4% of global carbon emissions from inland waters. Our estimates are smaller than previous estimates on the basis of more limited data. Carbon emissions are correlated to reservoir age and latitude, with the highest emission rates from the tropical Amazon region. We conclude that future emissions will be highly dependent on the geographic location of new hydroelectric reservoirs.. > low energy density

That correlates with a larger amount of concrete which has to be used for construcing these plants.

[Conrete isn't green](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portland_cement#Environmental_effects), producing it even emits CO2.

Not exactly the chemical waste you guys were talking about, but still related.. And the longer we just sit and wait on it, the less hazardous nuclear waste is. Plus, while waiting for the radioactivity to decay off, we might develop a good way to harness the lower heat output of spent fuel.. you speak as if we have storage figured out.

we don't . At least here in Canada Hydro produces 63% of our electricity. I didn't provide links but at least I tried reasoning and explaining. It says your a nuclear physicist on your user. You would probably know as much as a nuclear engineer on this topic. Here's a link about Canada's production of hydro https://www.nrcan.gc.ca/sites/www.nrcan.gc.ca/files/www/pdf/publications/emmc/renewable_energy_e.pdf
Although 15% of electricity is produced by 18 nuclear power plants they are still used less. I presume they are used less because their impact in the long term is worse than Hydro. https://www.nrcan.gc.ca/energy/facts/uranium/20070
. Space is something we have.

Nuclear waste is something that will cause issues into the future for hundreds of thousands of years on earth. We won't be paying for the negative externalities. Future generations will. If we last that long.. You are still comparing an hypothetical risk, namely poor storage engineering, to a certain one, [which is prolific contamination of surface waters in use by communities downstream.](https://www.pennlive.com/news/2018/02/natural_gas_waste_water_radioa.html)  

It's a choice between the possibility of a small number of people in the distant future being harmed, and the possibility of there being no people in the future.  That is a slightly unreasonable gambit.

So long as radioactive particles are not emitted into the atmosphere, or directly into surface water, the risk profile is actually quite small.  Both of those are already happening by choosing not to facilitate nuclear for baseline power.  Not supplanting coal and shale gas with nuclear is automatically choosing the worst case scenario.

Humans occupy 1% of the Earth's surface area.  It's nearly impossible to not find places where nuclear waste can be safely stored until an even more thorough solution can be found.  In decades to come, there will likely be superior solutions as options.  In the intervening period, there is no excuse to not use the most logical current available option.

If you prefer that a billion or so people be thrust into something more desperate than a subsistence mode of living because of a cartoon character, just understand that it is a choice.. What is green supposed to mean? . when they include "working falling of platforms" in wind, are similar incidents included in nuclear as well? And, as far as I can tell, it doesn't including mining incidents for uranium and incidents during waste disposal . My study is from 2017.  Yours are from around 2014 and don’t even attempt to reasonably project future emissions.

. Right but those being blown up carries far fewer risks that tons of nuclear waste. . That's not how orbits work, things don't just float off in straight lines in space. Applying any less than the necessary 30km/s delta-v will just leave the waste in an elliptical orbit that dips toward the sun and comes right back up to 1au from the sun less than a year later, which could theoretically lead to the waste actually *coming back to Earth* if there's eventually another encounter thousands or hundreds of thousands of years in the future.

In the spirit of entertaining an obscenely impractical idea, and keep things ridiculous but not un-physical, the best option would be to chuck our radioactive slag at Venus. The transfer is actually really cheap compared to anywhere else in the solar system. That place is already so screwed up on its surface that a bit of radioactive waste won't do shit.. Yeah I know - I’m saying the statement that “radioactive waste has a half life of 24000 years” is over reactive fear mongering, and that it’s more complicated and nuanced than that. . > What matters in terms of the cost is the overall cost per energy unit.

Yeah, no. Externalities matter - a lot. That's the whole point of the carbon vs. nuclear debate. . [removed]. I didn’t call nuclear power perfectly safe, I called it better than hydro.

At some stage people thought hydro was the cleanest form of energy generation, now we know better.. If you read the article they also mention carbon dioxide being emitted, and explain how in regions where the level of the reservoir rises and falls seasonally it becomes a mechanism to convert atmospheric carbon dioxide into atmospheric methane.

What exactly do you think hydroelectric would do that would compensate for this problem?. “Short lived” relative to carbon dioxide. But it’s still significant. And if you agree elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide is a problem I don’t see how you could dismiss elevated atmospheric methane. . Yes, that is true, there are negative impacts from the construction of a nuclear power plant, but IIRC, they're still relatively minor compared to most renewable sources.  

At the very least, that particular pollutant is orders of magnitude smaller than the amount of concrete used for making hydroelectric dams, which people keep trying to pitch as an alternative to nuclear power as a base-load supply.  . We don't have storage figured out for CO2 either.

The way we treat storing CO2 is *worst case*.

You are right that nuclear waste is a tough issue, but not as urgent as the CO2 waste issue.

If renewables couldn't replace one of them completely, they won't be able to replace both in a short time frame. We have to choose. We should choose to replace the urgent danger first, which is fossil, which indirectly means to rely more on nuclear.. Th-U fuel becomes safe long before current U-Pu fuel, thousands of years before. But that aside, if you look at the mantle of the earth there are tremendously large amounts of fission byproducts naturally generating in there. A large amount of heat in the mantle actually comes from nuclear fission. So essentially to bury the waste is a good long term solution because it works for nature. . It means environmentally friendly, compared to more conventional energy sources. Which it is.. > when they include "working falling of platforms" in wind, are similar incidents included in nuclear as well?

Well nuclear plants aren't built on platforms, so no not exactly like that. 

> And, as far as I can tell, it doesn't including mining incidents for uranium and incidents during waste disposal 

How did you come to that conclusion? They specifically talk about coal mining accidents, what makes you conclude they don't include uranium mining? . 14 of august 2013

For your: Norgate, T. et al., “The Impact of Uranium Ore Grade on the Greenhouse Gas Footprint of Nuclear Power” Journal of Cleaner Production 2014




https://sci-hub.tw/https://www.researchgate.net/publication/268526626_The_impact_of_uranium_ore_grade_on_the_greenhouse_gas_footprint_of_nuclear_power

Also the life cycle production isn't just about uranium ore. It's not like solar panels don't require metal mining as well as toxic byproducts from production.. > That's not how orbits work, things don't just float off in straight lines in space. Applying any less than the necessary 30km/s delta-v will just leave the waste in an elliptical orbit that dips toward the sun and comes right back up to 1au from the sun less than a year later, which could theoretically lead to the waste actually coming back to Earth if there's eventually another encounter thousands or hundreds of thousands of years in the future.

I'm not sure what scenario you're talking about.

The cheapest theoretical way to go to sun (Edit: without gravity assists, that is) is to go to an escape trajectory, and then at infinity burn just a little to get to an orbit that goes back to the sun. This uses only slightly more than the escape velocity.. Oh gotcha, I misread . It's not the cost of fuel that affects the carbon output. And like I say the renewables most often cost nothing for fuel.. In that case I look forward to moving on to python! What would you say makes you prefer python? Sorry for all the questions, I'm just starting out with coding.. You got some source on that? I still think it's one of the best and much better than nuclear.. Generate carbon free electricity. In the case of Itaipu it's over half a million barrels of oil a day it saves.. [deleted]. > the construction of a nuclear power plant

Oh, I thought about the construction of renewable power plants, which use concrete as well but with a much lower energy density, which means you have to use more concrete per power outputted. It seems we agree, sorry for the confusion.. You keep talking as if renewables weren't already a thing.... When we are ready to do that, then I will wholeheartedly support nuclear generation. But stockpiling it until we forget about it scares the crap out of me. [It's already happened.](https://www.stuff.co.nz/world/south-pacific/99300184/a-nuclear-waste-dump-in-the-pacific-ocean-is-leaking--and-climate-change-is-to-blame)

Also, seriously watch Dark Tourist episode 2 on Netflix. We have a lot of nuclear fallout to deal with already.. The waste it produces isn’t. . You got me on the date.  But again, your sources don’t talk about projections, which are the most important consideration when we’re talking about how to power our societies in the future.

I also never said renewables don’t have intense environmental drawbacks.  In fact, my position has ALWAYS been that we need to use less energy.  So engage that position, please.. Oh I see what you mean! That definitely makes sense then, I thought you were implying something entirely else in your comment. 

Totally don't mind me flexing my hundreds of mediocre hours of kerbal space program experience, I am now aware that you do indeed know what you're talking about.. > It's not the cost of fuel that affects the carbon output.

Fucking duh.

> And like I say the renewables most often cost nothing for fuel.

Indeed, but they almost always have a higher per-kW cost. Usually a lot higher.

Again, *none of that* was my question. It’s true hundred percent. nan. Too often are physics memes an insult to both physics and memes. Glad to see a notable exception. fuck you and your normal force.. I'll allow it.. The guy in front is relaxed af . AHAHAHAHAHAHHA now that's an opposite and equal reaction. Ok well I got more upvotes than the op so I’ve now become the very thing I hated from the beginning. 

“You either die a hero, or see your self become a villain” . Give love to OP to  . Can someone make a copy of the meme itself, wanna drop that heat into the groupchats. I love it when teachers try.. Every action has an equal an opposite reaction, except when we both start rapping!. I have that watch. Please print out this upvote and give it to him.. I need the original plz. Your professor stole this meme! He's a filthy reposter!. an equal and opposite re-slaption?. https://www.reddit.com/r/physicsmemes/comments/9a7qik/selling_newtons_3rd_law/

also https://www.reddit.com/r/physicsmemes/comments/8x3c04/crosspost_from_rdankmemes_but_it_belongs_here/. Fuck me this is gold. Scrolled all the way to the bottom hoping someone would’ve asked what does it mean? And someone would’ve answered. Umm. Can someone explain? I suck at physics! =D. At least he had the decency to steal a proper meme and not try to make a really shitty one to relate to his students. Or her, what do I know?. Needs more deep frying . What's the original meme called?
.  

Doesn't that mean I have to down vote it?. I love it. But is this correct quantum understanding?. Oof.. Is there a sub that’s the exact opposite of r/fellowkids ?. That's actually really good, and I thought every ounce had been wrung out of this meme. By far best version of this meme. Im pretty sure it was taken from this sub so lol? . the same energy the vulture needs to grasp the ox, is the energy the ox uses to receive the vulture. r/physicsmemes

Supeised no one mentioned this directly sooner. I don’t know a whole lot about physics and I really like this meme!. It’s funny but the car salesman meme is kinda dead. /r/physicsmemes. r/fellowkids. r/fellowkids. [deleted]. [deleted]. Clap them cheeks and let those cheeks clap you…. …with exactly the same force.. For those that wonder what the joke is: Formally stated, Newton's third law is: For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.. Does this refer to every action has a reaction?. You Newton slaps head of apple. Apple slaps head of Newton. Isn't  a good meme?. This one seems forced.. Could you give an example of these "insulting memes?" Genuine question, I'm just curious since I havent seen many physics memes. *normal force fucks you back*. fucking normie forces ruin everything REEEEEEEE. And I'll  upvote it.. My Lord, is that legal?. r/UnexpectedCelebrityDeathmatchReferee. This guy is trying to applause in an original way. That's cool. 

&#x200B;

This guy is a cool and relaxed af guy.. You going to save the memes from reposting, not respost them yourself, Anakin!!. Well, every "action" has a "reaction" of equal magnitude. A good meme is no exception.. Op is sexy. I'd slap the shit out of you op😉. To what?. How do the sex. Direct link: https://i.redd.it/zvv7axwf1r811.png

Original post: https://www.reddit.com/r/dankmemes/comments/8x2ire/must_have_200_iq_to_understand_this_meme/. Newtons 3rd law

For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction.

So if say you slapped a car using your hand with some  force, the surface responds with an opposite but equal amount of force.   . [deleted]. Every action has an equal and opposite reaction. So if you happen to slap a car, the car "slaps" back, which is why your hand doesn't just pass right on through the solid surface of the car. This, of course, was described by Newton in his famous Third Law.. If you look at it, it’s a cross post. [deleted]. Yes. What’s Tim Cook gotta do with this? /s. Everyone's a meme critic these days. . [deleted]. I guess you can say it has too many Newtons. Like a fart?. Can't think of any off the top of my head but they're very often just not very clever. Will just be something dumb like: *slaps hood of navier-stokes equation* "this bad boy can fit so many symbols in here". OwO. Doesn't that mean I have to down vote it?. [deleted]. thank u/Mr_Osama
. Excuse me what the fuck. Kinky.. The OP (Original Poster) was u/Mr_Osama, not the guy who is getting all the karma for this crosspost. . You don't. Got it. Thanks. . I'm not very smart, despite still trying and wanting to learn things. But the way you explained it suddenly makes me understand this easier, thanks. And who said memes can't be educational.. Thanks! I get it now! . Adding onto this, the math behind it is fairly self explanatory. The equation behind it is Force equals Mass times Acceleration... or F=m•a

Take a car accident for example, regardless of the sizes of each car both vehicles exert the same amount of force onto one another, just in opposite directions. So... say if an 18-wheeler plows into a smart car, one would think that the larger vehicle would exert more force considering the smart car would be absolutely obliterated, but no. Since the big rig has a much larger mass, it receives very little acceleration (which is why the driver would probably not be hurt at all... he received hardly any acceleration. The driver of the smart car however, since his car has a much smaller mass, must make it up with a very large acceleration so Force will equal that of the Big Rig’s Force. The acceleration is very much enough to kill the driver of the smart car, but essentially both vehicles hit each other with the same amount of force.. So is half the shit in that subreddit. . That sub has gotten to the point where the most upvoted stuff is actually funny.. Don't know, but apparently Newton's real mad at him. . Meme Review. [deleted]. *conserving* you philistine. . Okay I think I get the idea now. No, but you can downvote the guy above you.

(Guess what? We've just proved 3rd Newton's law of the internet - ask for a thing and get the opposite). r/UnexpectedThanos?. Maybe a [Shotgun-Axe](https://streamable.com/b59ft) combination of some sort.. It why in space movies when they are stuck floating in space they can move by throwing something. The force of you throwing the object is also equally pushing back on your body.. It's not funny in the "so bad it's funny way". Don’t give Youtubers any ideas.. Perfectly balanced. The velocity of which this thread ran downhill from 1-100 is .11 meters/seconds. Unexpected newton. For every up vote, there must be an equal and opposite down vote. good bot. Reaction videos already exist.. r/unexpectedthanos . As all things should be. . This changes everything.. So, Thanos is Newton?. r/thanosdidnothingwrong. Except the karma count. Magnus effect. nan. This is how you video something. Multiple angles at normal speed, finish with a slow mo. . This is a legal shot.. I’ve *wanted* to know how to do this for a long time.
. [Magnus effect](http://geekologie.com/2015/07/16/magnus-effect-basketball.gif). The guy serving looks like a Magnus. So you're saying I can dodge nets? . Boomerang Snake!. The look back at the camera guy after the shot:  "Tell me you fuckin got that.".  Wonder how many shots it took to get this right. Someone hit me with the science.. *Magnus rushes in!*. Seriously thought chess would somehow be involved.. You called?. Veritasium has a really good video on this. My name is Magnus and I approve this effect. Not entirely sure this meets all the qualifications for the Magnus effect but I'm probably wrong. . Wonder how many tries that took.. If only I could play ping pong this good..... I don't think Forrest Gump would be too happy with this. . /r/blackmagicfuckery . Anyone gonna explain how this works? I COULD just look it up on Wikipedia, but that’s too much of a struggle. . Table tennis is a baffling game.. Wow what a shock. Another link spammer. . Foul! 
Off-sides!. Save some pussy for the rest of us cheese and rice. The server doesn't serve "correctly" and gets a lot of spin on it so it was a little bit of a team effort. [removed]. [deleted]. They forgot to zoom in on the server and play the _Curb Your Enthusiasm_ theme.. Not sure what's so difficult about following this. So the ball just needs to get past the net, not go over it?. Magnus did nothing wrong.. I will make it legal!. The serve however.... It doesn't have to go over the net?. Well, the first step is to be really lucky on the genetic draw. The second step is to practice table tennis for hours upon hours every day for the vast majority of your life. The third step is to be willing to do as many takes as you need.. Is this a joke about the movie 'Wanted'?. I can answer this! I was the captain of my table tennis team in College and then played in league play for years.

While difficult this is not some impossible table tennis career aspiration, I would say any player at about the USATT rating of 1900 or above could do this consistently, for perspective collegiate player is about 2000\-2400, pros are about 2400\-2700 and USATT average tournament rating is 1600.  For perspective I've never seen a beginner come in at higher than 1100 rating.  That being said, I've seen plenty of people go from "I want to be good at table tennis" to "I could do this shot" in about 1\-2 years of consistent drilling and practicing with a team or coach, vice I'm the best basement player in my neighborhood.

I would say about 1\-2 years of practice and drilling with a coach can get a player from 1000 to 1700 which is the level you need  to start trying this.  This is a loop with a lot of side spin and while difficult is actually much more mechanically simple than some other shots, it's mostly a timing and positioning thing.   The hardest aspect is that you want to brush the ball, not hit through it, and use that brushing motion to put a lot of spin on it which simulatneously lets you hit it harder and faster.   Once you feel comfortable on your loops you just change your wrist angle or footing to get side contact.

All that being said it's pretty obscure shot and you don't see many people attempting it or getting setups where they can break this out in games, below a semi\-pro level.  So when I played I never practiced this shot because why would I?. It’s not too difficult. You need a paddle with a rubber that can do a lot of spin and speed really well. . I understood that reference. I'm continually amazed how poor a grasp Redditors have of emphasis.. Ayyy. I've sat on the edge of that dam. . LOL he does, I thought it was a Swedish player or something at first before I remembered I've seen other videos with the Magnus effect xD (am Swedish, clearly biased here). I'm telling you that, when the time comes, you won't have to.. YES! Thank you!. Hsssss. There are 8 balls visible on the floor so the answer is at least 9 attempts. . Second this, although my guess is the spin in the ball creates a pressure difference to deflect the ball towards the lower pressure.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=23f1jvGUWJs. As did I . THis is deifnitely the magnus effect at work and is the principle aerodynamic effect that changes the natural ballistic trajectory of a table tennis ball.. Agreeing with metranica's comment, if it curves in a way that isn't a natural gravity-momentum trajectory, in this setting (short distance, no wind) the magnus effect, or force from spin on the ball, should be the only noticeable effect providing an acceleration different from gravity on the ball. 

In golf it can be the magnus effect or wind moving the ball, and when shooting a gun over long distancee the coriolis effect (spin of the earth) on top of wind or the magnus effect can apply. 

I'm really curious to know if another effect could possibly apply to spherical projectiles like this, so if there's something more besides drag and lift please add on!. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=23f1jvGUWJs. I saw that as well. He could have done a legal serve and given him extra spin to work off of and it still would have worked. The extra spin is unpredictable and it probably took multiple takes before he hit it perfectly.. This is how you practice in drills and the guy serving was just putting on side spin to kick it out faster.  In drilling you often hit only on the opposite side of the net as you are simulating a return, not a serve.. The ball is allowed to go around the net.

[https://www.thoughtco.com/can\-you\-hit\-the\-ball\-around\-the\-net\-in\-table\-tennis\-3174119](https://www.thoughtco.com/can-you-hit-the-ball-around-the-net-in-table-tennis-3174119). Sherlock, is that you? . Yes, and this applies to tennis as well. Yep. It needs to land anywhere on your opponents side of the table \(on the top surface\)  How it gets there is entirely up to you with the one touch you are allowed anywhere below the wrist.     The chances or times you have when you can go around the net is few, and really you don't want to set  yourself up with having to go  around the net as you are now way out of position.   Pro's and collegiate players do it sometimes, I've seen it in my league play and done it a few times about half resulted in me still losing the point as it's a super  easy return for a defensive player.. Free Magnus!. Free Magnus!. Free Magnus!. Oh, don't worry, just cleaning up all the 'nothing wrong' that Magnus did.

*Killing daemons in the background*. Free Magnus!

^im ^so ^sorry. Magnus shot first!. It is already legal so it's... not... treason then?. This is so very true, it almost hurts me! I used to play table tennis fairly seriously when I was younger and I failed in all the mentioned aspects, alas. . It's definitely not easy, but it's not that that hard. If you're willing to add a bit more (3), you can decrease the amounts of (1) & (2) required. Plenty of topspin and sidespin. . Tbh genetic differences between humans, barring a crippling disability, are small enough that they arn't worth considering in this case.. This is how I feel playing a Mage in OrbusVR... . You're way overblowing it.. We messed around before for a few hours specifically trying to do this type of shot and we got a few like this.


In terms of getting it somewhat frequently, steps one and two are right. But for a once off with a few beers, most people can do it once.. Ah. I was wondering why he emphasized that word. . Dam(n).. Close! The guys at Pongfinity are Finnish.. *throws 🔧 * ...but till then. That's pretty much it.. Correct, [Kaidoh Kaoru](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYv84wPxs4U) is famous for this play. Here's a collection of [15 times Roger Federer has done this in a match.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_1hsCmheZI). > allowed anywhere below the wrist.

So if I get caught on the wrong side I can smack the ball with my other palm?. I read, free ma anus.. [deleted]. Um... I guess I don't need to be the Senate then. . [deleted]. So much this.

It's not that hard to hit a ball like that.

It *is* that hard to hit a ball like that against a real opponent.. Agreed, I think people tend to radically over\-estimate the effect size of genetic differences in all sorts of fields, and give short shrift to the effects of training and early development.. I think he was getting at that some people appear to be genetically gifted. From playing piano, hockey, and eating. We all have things we are inclined to be good at.. That's kind of the context that I assumed, yeah. Knowing how to do something, to me, implies a certain level of reproducibility.. I had forgotten that whole anime existed, thank you . Only your racket hand wrist,  if you drop the paddle mid stroke you in theory can still hit it with your hand, and several people have done that in tournament play, you can't hit it with your off hand though.  . Shouldn't have sewed it shut.. I posted one after this and went to delete this but must’ve deleted the wrong one . Yes and rocket propulsion is just a controlled explosion. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Srinivasa_Ramanujan

Eeeh. Well yeah that's what he was getting at ... but that's also what gmano was responding to.  So I don't think there was a misunderstanding.  The point is that genetic differences don't seem to be a good candidate for explaining why some people are good at playing piano.  Short or thick fingers would be a disadvantage, long thin fingers an advantage.  But much more powerful than that is dedication to study and love of the piano.  The relative effect size that genetics has on piano skill is extremely small compared to the effect size that an early passion and training have.. There is no gene for hockey, just experience.

There might be a gene to make you ever so slightly stronger or faster, but the impacts of that gene on your performance are all-but-nonexistent compared to lifestyle, diet, and most importantly training.. can you switch the paddle from hand to hand or is it bound at the start of play?. Had to. Was Catholic.. Well... I mean, it is... but.... While genetics definitely comes into play, what is often overlooked in these cases is the absolute passion and dedication to the subject these people have. You can bet your ass doing maths was basically the only thing this guy did.

If you put as much time into it as he did, maybe you wouldn't be a savant, but guaranteed you'd be damn good at the subject.. **Srinivasa Ramanujan**

Srinivasa Ramanujan FRS (;  listen ; 22 December 1887 – 26 April 1920) was an Indian mathematician who lived during the British Rule in India. Though he had almost no formal training in pure mathematics, he made substantial contributions to mathematical analysis, number theory, infinite series, and continued fractions, including solutions to mathematical problems considered to be unsolvable. Ramanujan initially developed his own mathematical research in isolation; it was quickly recognized by Indian mathematicians. Seeking mathematicians who could better understand his work, in 1913 he began a postal partnership with the English mathematician G. H. Hardy at the University of Cambridge, England.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. I agree with the other commenter: Ramanujan was deeply obsessed from a young age, and although we don't have the scientific tools to gauge how much genetics affected either skill or interest, or vice versa, for various personal reasons, I strongly suspect that passion was the larger causal factor. . There *are* things that contribute to that. Not merely physical differences (even something as simple as metabolism comes to mind) but having the perseverance to achieve these things is going to be significantly harder if you have, say, a predisposition to immune system problems, and easier if you have predispositions to building muscle in the right places, if you have the right height and such.

There is no hockey gene, but there *are* things that will help folks in an athletic sense, and there *are* things that will hinder others.. You can switch it from hand to hand, but you are legally only allowed one racket. There is pretty much no strategic advantage though and once you get to a club level player I've never met anyone who is ambidextrous enough to make it worth while beyond a trick or a joke for fun. Even twiddling (spinning your racket so the other side of the rubber is on your forehand) is falling out of style with a lot of the rule changes and rubber changes and I stopped twiddling for all but the occasional service return against specific opponents.

. >absolute passion and dedication to the subject these people have.

Which he was taught?. As if the propensity to becomed obsessed is not genetic. The point is you don't have to be jealous of someone's success if you're not willing to put time and effort into it. Because they did.. "we don't have the scientific tools to gauge how much genetics affected either skill or interest"

I expressed that we don't know how much genetics causes interest.  . Thats pure laziness and determinism gone mad "I'm not gonna do this thing because I'm genetically programmed to not be bothered" . This was never about jealousy, though.. Womp. Sorry, I misread your comment.. That's not really what I'm saying. If somebody argues a skill is not innate talent, but instead hard work, they're ignoring the potential innateness of grit/dedication/obsession.  May he rest in peace. nan. "What was mortal of" - absolutely love it. Truly immortalised by his work and his story. . What's that equation for?. Giants.. They had to replace it after the engraver initially put T = \frac{\hbar c^3 }{8\pi GMk}

. Rest in peace. May your essence last forever.. I know it might seem bad but ive never actually felt real sadness when i found out a famous person died. But When i heard about stephen hawking i was devastated. On my last day of my junior year of college it finally hit me and i teared up just thinking about him

He was a damn big inspiration to me and im sure he was to a lot of other people here too. Epic.. Farewell kind sir.. I always forget he was British, his accent just wasn’t that noticeable. . He was a an honorable man.... What a brilliant human being he was..... If this photo is the real deal, it’s wonderful. I love the words, the acknowledgement of mortality, and the modern design in a beautiful historic setting.. Our species never deserved him. To be clear, I was a huge fan of Stephen Hawking and his work, but honestly, he is just not on the same scale as Newton or Darwin. He made very significant contributions to his field for sure, but nothing like that of Einstein, Feinman, Newton, Darwin, and other legends of science who's work completely redefined their fields.. I agree.. And Westminster gets its second equation.. Fox News reported Hawking was buried between Charles Darwin and Isaac Newtown (sic). 
Hmmmm....what does that say Fox News?. I saw it in Westminster Abbey. The bigger question is what they did/ will do with his chair and voice machine. Call me morbidly curious. . He died?. [deleted]. Serious question though...we couldn't launch him into space? I would have given money to send him into a black hole, if that's what he would have wanted of course.. That equation sure wasn't mortal!. I mean i don't want to be that guy here but he really didn't contribute an amount to science comparable to Newton or Darwin. There is only more public memory of him because of his disease and his personal story.. Am I the o oh one who thinks he was a weirdo, crazy mofo. Punching just a tad over his weight there. Rest in peace? Where? How? I thought he died.. Well, also, he's buried in a church, and they do have that whole church thing.. I think he also liked the fact that one day when the earth is engulfed by the sun, that his remains would return to star dust.. It's called the hawking equation. https://www.google.ca/amp/s/www.cambridge-news.co.uk/news/cambridge-news/stephen-hawking-equation-gravestone-westminster-14788881.amp. [deleted]. I was gonna say this!. [deleted]. Just put a few dollar bills on the sides. I remember being asleep when my girlfriend(who knows how much I love his work being a student of astrophysics and cosmology) wakes me up and tells me: " Akis don't get shocked but Hawking died". I can still remember me instantly waking thinking it's some kind of joke and immediately trying to confirm it. And that's when my shock turned to sadness and tears in my eyes. That day I didn't go to the university and in general did nothing other than rereading "A brief history of time"...
 I really thought this man was invincible and , while he is still a man, his power to inspire is still here with us.... Absolutely. The genius of our time. An inspiration and a role model, and I honestly was more sad about his death than I was about deaths of people I actually knew. Never again will there be another like him. A great father, a fascinating mind, and good sense of humor. He was truly one of our best humans. . He always said his only complaint about his voice machine is that it gave him an American accent.. Nice . So were they all, all honourable men.. I agree, but:

1. He still made huge contributions.

2. Hawking really showed that if a paralysed dude with a robot voice can do groundbreaking physics, then maybe so can I. Who knows how many discoveries will be made by people inspired to get into science because Hawking demonstrated that science is for everyone, not just rich people in paintings. . True. But I would have just blown my brains out (while I still could). 

He's definitely a genius, was one of the first to write a layman's description of hard science (brief history ) and an obvious inspiration. 

And a wicked humour. . *Feynman

To be fair, it's hard to be of the caliber of Newton or Darwin, who basically had the biggest impact on their respective fields in all of history. You'll find that many of the scientists interned at Westminster were not of the caliber of Newton or Dirac, and were arguably less innovative than Hawking. Westminster is for celebrated Britons, not the absolute greatest scientists who have ever lived. Even so, Hawking made some pretty major contributions to the field of cosmology and the theory of black holes.. Yes, on the 14th March this year.. [removed]. There was a time when religion was not hostile towards science the way it is today . Westminster is very important to the British. Then don't be that guy? He's famous for his groundbreaking black hole research and his bestseller popular science books. pretty much.. Hah, this is a good point I didn't even consider. I prefer my interpretation though :p. The sad thing is that the Earth is dense enough to sink to the core of the sun. Those of us who remain on Earth will remain in the white dwarf remnant of the sun for the long haul. . Kind of crazy how a “simple” equation can describe something like that. Though it makes one mistake, the constant displayed on there is h-bar, not h. Still used in the same field, just that the value voor h-bar=h/(2π).

EDIT: commenting on the difference between the equation displayed, and the information given in the article. Not commenting on the equation itself. . How long did it take him to figure it out?. Niiiice.. Is that the temperature of the acreation disk then?. [The more labour intensive version of my joke](https://i.imgur.com/V1tpRrQ.jpg). He actually later had the option to change but he said the voice had become part of him.. or something like that. Yah, it’s for people that happened to win the genetic lottery. 

I’d say engineering can be for everyone, but pushing the boundaries of science requires an extraordinary individual.  . The tricky part about being the next Newton or Darwin is just we have too much knowledge that needs to be processed to make any impact at all and our puny human lifespans and tiny brains and slow reading rate cant perform it at a scale. Dang. RIP. Darwin was a Christian for much of his life, but his belief slowly weakened over time. Later in life, he was most certainly not a Christian, but instead an agnostic.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_views_of_Charles_Darwin. Darwin was even at Cambridge originally to become a priest, iirc.. Newton's religious views would probably have been considered heretical had he made them public at the time. Certainly he wouldn't have been allowed to hold his university position.

Darwin was probably best described as agnostic in his later years.. both were clergyman, that is not the same as being very christian and religious, especially in a time were being one was the only realistic way to pursue a career in science (besides being ridiculously rich).

Their relationship to the christian faith was very complex and conflict laden, but it's undisputed among historians that Darwin died agnostic and Newton had to spend his life keeping his faith secret to avoid being branded a heretic.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious\_views\_of\_Charles\_Darwin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_views_of_Charles_Darwin)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious\_views\_of\_Isaac\_Newton](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_views_of_Isaac_Newton). [deleted]. He was a pretty ardent athiest so I hope this is to refer to the lasting impact of his work.. Not just kind of crazy, [actually totally crazy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Unreasonable_Effectiveness_of_Mathematics_in_the_Natural_Sciences).. [removed]. ~~h~~ is correct.. The tombstone doesn't look right to me. If [~~h~~ = h/2π](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_constant#Value), then the ratio should be either h/8π or ~~h~~/4, but the tombstone has ~~h~~/8π. What am I missing?. Jacob Bekenstein, who was fresh out of his PhD, came up with the proposal that black holes have a corresponding entropy sometime around 1972. Hawking thought the idea was totally wrong, but the story is that by 1974 Hawking managed to prove that Bekenstein was right by deriving that black holes radiate.

An important influence on Hawking was meeting the authors of [this paper](https://www.osti.gov/biblio/4704205) during a visit to Moscow in 1973. I can't seem to find an English translation of that paper.. During a long poop one day after T Bell the night before. No, the accretion disk gets its heat from the gravitational potential energy of the falling material. You don't need any special physics to describe that. In fact, the sea tidal energy that we extract on earth is the same energy as that.. ahaha well done, that’s dedication right there . I got that reference. . I think Dr. Hawking would probably appreciate the context of it, too. Back then, science and the church were intertwined. . Does it surprise you that the theory of the "big bang" was originally proposed by a Christian priest? Or that, despite the hooplah over Galileo, the (better) work on planetary motion and the structure of the solar system by Brahe and Kepler was supported by churches in Denmark and Germany?. [This is how.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_dissonance). I hope so too but even though I am an atheist I kind of like that it works both ways. Makes it work for everyone, I suppose.
. Then again, how could it be any other way? We use math if it is applicable. The true nature of the universe would require math far more advanced than what we could possibly imagine. Occam's razor isn't really based on simplicity, just making the least assumptions, which is a good rule of thumb for hypotheses. In many cases using Occam's razor can discredit simpler hypotheses. . That's not what I was commenting, I was commenting on the article:

> the h stands for Planck's constant, used to understand parts of quantum mechanics.. I'm not very familiar with Hawking radiation, but the equation on the tomb is in accordance with the equation on the [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation#Emission_process).. h/16pi^2. The 8π comes from the gravity part (i.e. it goes with the *G*, independently from the ћ).. But then what temperature ARE we talking about here? Certainly the event horizon can have a temperature can it? . [deleted]. **Cognitive dissonance**

In the field of psychology, cognitive dissonance is the mental discomfort (psychological stress) experienced by a person who simultaneously holds two or more contradictory beliefs, ideas, or values. The occurrence of cognitive dissonance is a consequence of a person performing an action that contradicts personal beliefs, ideals, and values; and also occurs when confronted with new information that contradicts said beliefs, ideals, and values.

In A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance (1957), Leon Festinger proposed that human beings strive for internal psychological consistency in order to mentally function in the real world. A person who experiences internal inconsistency tends to become psychologically uncomfortable, and so is motivated to reduce the cognitive dissonance, by making changes to justify the stressful behavior, either by adding new parts to the cognition causing the psychological dissonance, or by actively avoiding social situations and contradictory information likely to increase the magnitude of the cognitive dissonance.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. [deleted]. Occam's razor is brought up in so many conversations, correctly or incorrectly, these days it's nauseating.. It's the temperature of the Hawking radiation emitted, which is analogous to blackbody radiation so for all intents and purposes it is the temperature of the black hole itself.. It's the temperature of the event horizon as seen from far away, which emits particles of light like other hot objects.. I'm not sure what to tell you. I don't find it an internal battle at all. I find it difficult to imagine it being necessarily such a clash of titans. If you're really interested in understanding (not that you have to be), I think you might need to find different Christians than the ones you seem to be familiar with.. There's actually some debate about that.. That sounds like pure conjecture with no proof. Yea, I see it a lot when people argue for theories that sound cool and concise, not really theories that have a lot of scientific backing, the exact opposite of what the point of Occam's Razor is.... pays to remember that said priest was expressly a scientist first and a believer second.

he also had a very public spat with Pius XII over the latter promoting his theory as evidence for the creation myth. (which ended in the Pope backing down and agreeing to no longer trying to conflate science and religion).. [deleted]. Mathematics restricts its behavior regardless of whether the plant knows about it. And a gravity or sunlight detector that it uses to sense direction is more mathematical than it might seem, it's measuring a vector even if it doesn't know that's what it's doing.. Mathmematics is the description of the prescription by which all things work. Your plant doesn't have to use know calculus, to be limited to the prinicples which require it.  Me graduating today with an MSci in Physics with Astrophysics with honorary graduate, Professor Peter Higgs!. nan. [removed]. Well done, I'm 29 and starting my astrophysics degree in september. Can't wait for this day. . What is this thing you call....graduation?. Sorry for the photo quality, it's a close-up from my graduating class photo. I was lucky enough to stand right next to him! (Being short pays off for once!). Is...is that Queen's Uni Belfast?

Edit: Just checked, [it is indeed.](http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/ceao/News/Title,512087,en.html) 
Very jealous you got to meet the great man himself ;). Is your username a reference to Izzard?. You have accomplished no small feat.  You should be very proud.  You have earned one heck of a celebration.  Congratulations and best wishes.

. He is dressed way cooler than anyone else too. He's dressed like a Bozo^n. Congratulations! . Is this at King's College London?. Bastard was meant to go to ours last year but pulled out last minute. I was hoping we'd get Fred to do a speech instead but no such luck.. You should totally put this in /r/ladiesofscience too :D. Sometimes I wonder what boson in his head.. What is a MSci?. Inspiration for the future! Congrats on graduating! What are you going to do next?. I like the green robe on you. That's pretty cool! Curious, are you doing a terminal with the MS degree or continuing with a PhD afterwards? And if you're terminal, what sort of things can you do with an MS in Physics/Astrophysics? I honestly have no idea and just was wondering :) Congrats!. Congratulations!!!!  I didn't even start my PhD program (International Economics) until I was 34 - and everyone thought I was crazy but I did it.  The hard work was worth it and yes, I face gender discrimination every day.  . Congratulations!

I used to believe honorary degrees were a farce... perhaps they are, but getting an honorary degree is the HARD way to earn that degree.. Congratulations! I look forward to my own graduation, though it may seem so far away.... Congrats!
. Congratulations from a colleague! . Wonderful - congratulations from a stranger :). Congratulations! I'm on my second year as a Materials Engineer. I want to take Physics as my second degree. . Neat memory.

Grats on your degrees!

. Congrats!. Congratulations!!!!!. After all your years of studying how does it compare to your high school years? Did you do much better? Worse? And is there anything you wish you did differently?. Which university is this?

EDIT: Oh wow, QUB, that's what I thought (I've already graduated in something else but I'm starting an MSci in Physics in September. Wow.). He still has to pick up his honorary degree over here in TCD. I wonder how many he gets in total.. /r/upvotedbecausehiggs. That is incredible congratulations. :). Right On!  Congratulations!. Congratulations! That's an incredible achievement to be proud of (:. I'm so proud of you!. ... So, you found the Higgs.. Congratulations!!. Congratulations, that is one super tough degree! All the best for a bright future!. Awesome . Congratulations!! And what an honor!. Well god damn, if that isn't the best photo you'll ever have taken of you in your entire life.. Congrats now go smash some matter or whatever it is you people do . . Thanks for all the work you are doing to better us as a species!. Congrats!!!! Just got my BS in Astro a year ago.  What are you planning on doing next?. Congratulations! Great photo!. What a glorious day...Congratulations, you must deserve it so revel in it...Then earn it... Hey guys i am 57 still taking courses...This where i go..My last course was philosophy...i'm like a starving insatiable hungry kid...





https://www.coursera.org/. Congratulations what a dream come true!. Congratulations! An amazing achievement and a geeking-out-moment in the same day. You're charmed!. So did you graduate, and also not graduate? (attempt at superposition joke) . Wow, it's an honor to meet you, Mr Boson.. This is soooo baller. Neeeeeeeeeerd!! :D
(Congrats, that is awesome!!). congratulations!!!. Next step, Hegemon of Earth!. NEEEEEEEEEEEEEEERRRRRRRDDDSSS. I'm so envy of you, congratulations. I'm starting a degree in physics this fall with a focus on teaching. My goal is to give students this kind of opportunity. Thanks for sharing! . EI KOTI
. This isn't at the University of Edinburgh, is it?. Thats soo awesome. At almost 26, am I way too late to viably start a path towards astronomy/physics? The only school I have under my belt thus far is some GE college courses and a High-School degree... It would be years before even getting into the meat of the subject.

I could potentially finish up by the time I'm in my early 30s... but with no experience in the field I feel like my resumes and applications would be completely skimmed over for those who were much younger accomplishing the same thing.

Oh, and also - congratulations :). [Is that the guy that they made this for?] (http://i.imgur.com/FNTSkP1.gifv). Why do people wear such weird clothing during graduations? It's something I've only seen in movies.
Of course I'm from a country where new graduates are often celebrated by throwing eggs, flour, milk and all kinds of sustances all over them ([video proof](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_QFRnATmHAs)). Wait where is this? If you say QUB I'll hate myself forever.. According to tumblr, you're being kept from pursuing stem majors. I'm sorry you are so oppressed.. How many Nobel prizes do you have between the two of you?. Congrats. deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.7948  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/42178). What's Bernie Sanders doing at your graduation?. OP looks cute! . So they found him, I mean, it?. Let's get married and talk about physics all the time... . NERDDDSSSSS. Nerd. The Boson guy?. We get it you smoke weed. Afterwards some helium floats into a bar and tries to order a drink. Bartender says, "We don't serve noble gases in here." The helium doesn't react. . They didn't call me the god particle for nothing!. If they could not have mass without him, why was the Priest surprised? This joke makes no sense.. I'm 32, starting masters in astrophysics this fall. I hope to graduate with a PhD before my 40th.. I'm 28 and wanting to go back to school.  Good on you for taking those next steps! 


Can I ask what degree(s) you currently hold? . I'm in my mid thirties, and I barely attended high school and never went to college, so fuck, really really really well done both of you, from where I'm standing.. i am doing civil engineering now and im on my 3rd year, i always wanted to do to astrophysics but thought it could be late for me. You gave me motivation to do it as a second degree no matter how old i could be, Thanks!!. I'm glad to hear about people like you. I'm 26 and ready to start a PhD.. It's when you finally punish your brain enough that they give you some nice robes to wrap yourself in like a safety blanket. It's what happens when your body can no longer take the all nighters of cramming and drinking.. Congrats! (Is Peter Higgs short as well?). Good luck and Congrats. I wish more women would take the harder path.. It is indeed! QUB Physics and Maths class of 2015 woo!. You know, you are the first ever person to get that reference. It is indeed, Definite Article!. It was by no means easy, almost missed graduating in the summer due to a missed exam for appendicitis. But in the end it all worked out, now I have a first class honours! . Seriously though, I dig the duds.. Nope, queen's university Belfast. Bastard is 86, I'd give him a break.. It was touch and go if he'd make it to ours, he seemed quite frail onstage. Don't think he's up to travel so much any more. I did a very unattractive snort at that one. Takes away from the dignity of earlier a little.. Here it's an MSc for a postgraduate masters degree, MSci designates an undergraduate masters (so four years with a research project in the final year). PhD next, I'm not done with physics yet!. Thanks, I thought Professor Higgs looked particularly fetching in his floral-print dress though
. I'm starting my PhD in September - though not in Astrophysics (it was just my particular pathway). My PhD is in an industry-affiliated project called the Centre for Doctoral Training, specialising in Photonic Integration and Advanced Data Storage. The idea is to work with industry partners such as Seagate to develop new research ideas into data storage techniques. It gives me the research experience of a regular PhD in addition to the industry connection and management skills that will come in very handy if I decide to go into R&D somewhere as opposed to straight academia. . Though going straight from the masters into the workplace seemed to be a solid plan for some of my classmates - physics degrees are highly sought after in places like investment banks and software companies - we have a lot of problem solving skills and programming experience after all!. I can't imagine it, it's not something I've ever even seen happen in my field. I am sorry that's been your experience, but I guess all you can do is be the best you can be and let your achievements prove your worth to anyone who thinks gender has anything to do with it. Thank you very much! I'll still be around for the next four years doing my PhD!. During high school I never really struggled, I worked but it all came quite easily to me. University was another story entirely - no one gets by on intelligence alone, it requires so much work and dedication. It's been very stressful at times, but I loved every minute of it.. I am a bot gathering data on some common conjunctions. Thank you for your data. *[What is a conjunction?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPoBE-E8VOc)*. Queen's University Belfast!. I did it, I know other people who've done it, you can ABSOLUTELY so it. (Be prepared for a ton of debt if you're in the US though.)  But having said that, if you only plan to get a BS maybe do something less stressful than physics? You can't get a real "physics" or "astronomy" job with less than a masters, or preferably a PhD.. My undergraduate class happened to be mainly people coming right from school at 18, but the year below me had a few more mature students. I think if you are really interested and you're in a position financially to do so by all means look into it, it's been an incredibly rewarding experience. So much so that I've signed up to start a PhD in September for four more years of it!. When I was in college, my physics professor was a cabinet maker until he  went back to school in his 30s and got his doctorate.. It's been a constant struggle, every day my lecturers would literally walk over me, tell me to get back to the kitchen etc etc. 

In all seriousness I've never once experienced any kind of discrimination based on my gender. The physics department in my university is at least an even split between genders and it's a very open and cooperative atmosphere. Nope, last name begins with M - I was at the front because I'm tiny :P. My SO might be a little bummed out by that :P. If you want to describe a Nobel-prize winning physicist as 'the boson guy' then yeah, it's the boson guy
. Nah that's Satyendra Nath Bose. I don't get it. The tachyon leaves.

The bartender says, 'We don't serve your kind here.'

A tachyon walks into a bar.. "He doesn't react.". I always heard this joke with argon instead of helium.

Still hilarious though. HeHeHe. 32 this month and starting my astro PhD in Oct. Never too late!. How was it going back to school with all the youngsters? . Eight years is not unheard of for both, depending on the school(s)/advisor(s)/topic(s), but I don't think it's common either. You should have no problem being out well before then!. What's your undergrad in? . Idiot here: How does it take 8 years for that? And how can you afford to stay out of work for so long? [Serious]. Thanks, it was a huge decision to make but it will be worth it.

To answer your question, zero. I didn't even complete my leaving cert here in ireland (sat's in america i think?). I dropped out of school to do an apprenticeship, and ended up working on building sites in Australia. I say it was a huge decision to make,but it wasn't necessarily a hard one. I knew if i stayed in a career i hated, and never reached my potential i would never be happy. So i returned to ireland and completed a mature student diploma in foundation science. I got good enough results to be offered a place in physics in one of the best universities in Ireland :). Thanks mate, you would be surprised at the amount of sneering and begrudging when i tell people I'm trying to better myself.. In my forties, and only five classes left for my bachelors in mathematics.  Never too late!. Never too late to be happy. You changed your degree scheme 2 years in because of a 1 line post on reddit?. *^(You don't keep the robes). I love that analogy. I'm midway through writing my PhD thesis and am looking forward to the day that I, out of breath with sweat dripping from my brow, exhaustedly type the final word in front of cheering onlookers, and my supervisor runs over with a cap and gown.. [Like this?](http://www.thundershirt.com/). Alas, not always. I hit that point a few years ago, and no degree yet.. Quite short, but the man's in his 80's so it's understandable. I'm just a short girl :P. Thought it was familiar! Fellow grad here, saw the Higgs give a lecture on his boson last year - he was great.. Noooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!

I will hate myself forever for missing this.. It's funny, I graduated with a degree in the humanities from there wearing the same outfit. (I'm now studying physics in a completely different country, but that's another story. Better get Prof. Higgs on the line for my graduation!).. Hey, I was there! My sister graduated from maths today. I'm graduating from physics (although not at queen's) in a couple of months :) congratulations.. Yiss :)

Love Izzard. I've got his sets memorized since I've watched them like a billion times.

Gratz on your graduation :). I too just got a Msci from what I can tell it is honors of the first class not a first class honors. i.e. the masters part has first class attached to it as well. . Actually I think it's Jokers institute of technology, Liverpool.. I heard hes only in his 50s but he looks that age cause be had to wait on gareth at the office getting him signed in. Tau YOU doin? :). I've seen other places call that an MPhys. There isn't much consistency around for degree abbreviations.. Ah learned something new. > undergraduate masters (so four years with a research project in the final year)

So a regular undergrad .. they just slap masters on the end to make people think they have a masters . What do you hope to research? Something the realm of astrophysics, I'm assuming? Or did Higgs convince you to go into HEP haha. Very cool, good luck!. Agree- I think I bring a modern/youthful breath of fresh air on the subject and really work hard to engage my students in the classroom.  I teach in an urban, blue-collar metro area (Detroit) and some days it takes a spirited debate about the auto unions to get my class fired up. I'm doing MSci Physics at QUB in September. Can I ask what you're focusing your PhD on, I'm curious if you're continuing toward Astrophysics or if you're focusing elsewhere. :) Congrats btw.

EDIT: You've already answered further down. I'm an idiot. Cheers.. Just finished my 1st uni year in physics and can't agree more! Is astrophysics nice? I am doubting which options to take and i'm gathering as much info as i can on the ones that most appeal to me :) . I am in the US - so debt is inevitable with higher education, unfortunately.

A BS in something related to the field is a great idea too, it is at least a good start, and the masters/PHD path could come later. Working in the industry is really more my goal than the PhD program. I appreciate the feedback. . Wait! How did you manage to get a masters in physics and have a so?? You defy logic :P congrats.. Standing next to higgs !! I think I can't beat that.. You guys made me realize how much I need physics jokes in my life.. *squints eyes* time to Google tachyon then. +1 Had to get my gizzoogle on for this one. Fast moving tachyon Respeck, sir.. He doesn't *react*?. And all the good jokes argon.. Yup! I'm 33 and just about to get into my junior year undergrad for physics. I realize, of course, that I have a long road ahead of me.. 28 and I suck at Science! Big fan though, we need more people like you guys!. I'm a "youngster" at a school known for their high percentage of "non traditional" students (adults, ex-military, etc) and the common enemy of coursework brings everyone together and the atmosphere is generally very friendly.. I'm a 31 year old grad student and I can safely say that it was normal-ish. When I was doing my undergrad (age 26-30), it was a little wierder because there were times (like my third year) where people would say things in class like "We're going drinking! <x> has just turned 21!" and I'd feel absurdly old. In grad school, that comes up a lot less since the others are generally at least 23-24ish and a most are in their mid to late 20's (particularly in phd tracks).. Most of the time, they forget my age. I'm just one more student suffering through the same class.

I work with a few of them, doing research. The 3 advisors I work with are only 3 years older. They remember my age, and treat me differently, but in a good way. They listen to me much more than the other students, and they ask my opinion on topics other than research.. Physics.. Working 40 hrs a week, not taking classes full time, had to repeat a couple classes (that were prerequisites for core classes). I could only do general ed classes the first 3 years because community college doesn't offer most physics courses.

Edit: Thought you were talking about taking 8 years to get undergrad (which I did). Physics PhD program (in the US) typically take 5-6 years. I'm doing a masters first because of my terrible undergrad performance, and will probably have to repeat the same courses in a grad program.

The 8 years assumption came from me taking 8 to get my B.S.

Edit II: You are usually supported through your masters &/or PhD program. Teaching labs, grading, research, etc... For PhD, the program or your PI (primary investigator, or research advisor) pay your tuition.. > I got good enough results to be offered a place in physics in one of the best universities in Ireland

Sounds like a great start!  Thanks for the reply.. They're just jealous. I'd be proud to have a knowledgeable friend such as yourself! They wish they knew what Stephen Hawking really meant.. [deleted]. :)  As a 31 year old aspiring student, this made my day.  . I believe he plans on getting doing astrophysics after his current degree, not necessarily going backwards on what he's already done.. I have been thinking about it for years . oh yea and i'm not quitting engineering, what i meant was pursue my career in astrophysics after i have my engineering degree as something to rely on. . [removed]. Wish we did, I got very comfortable in them. Felt like a wizard swishing around in them all day.. Woah we paid for our robes and got to keep them thank you very much. Permanent bubble!. I am wasting my time for nothing, then?. You do at some universities. . How did standing next to him affect your personal impression of your own weight, or, mass?. [deleted]. I also did a humanities degree here and am now doing physics. There's a lesson here.. Me too! Love me some Eddie Izzard. God help you if you knock the window. That stare could melt steel.. That one was more of a stretch, but I can't say no to puns. I think they're the same thing, MSci is just the general term including MChem, MMath, MPhys etc... It isn't an issue of consistency, they are different qualifications. The differences are only very slight - I think it is mainly due to how the credits are distributed in terms of lectures vs research - but they are technically different. However, I don't think anyone treats the qualifications differently.. And I don't 'think' I have a masters - according to the degree I just got today I DO have a masters. Please don't demean the accomplishments of me and my classmates because you don't agree with how my university classifies things.. Uh, no. They also offer a bachelor's degree, which is three years and a smaller project at the end. The undergraduate masters includes more in-depth study at a higher level in the final year as well as a more intensive project in an active area of research. While it might not be specialised in one area of physics it is still at a higher level than a regular bachelor's degree. Think of it as being somewhere between a bachelor's and a full postgraduate masters.. A postgraduate masters in the UK is only 1 year on top of a 3 year bachelors. (In Scotland a bachelors may take 4 years, but they can start at age 17 or sometimes go straight into second year)

For the sake of applying for jobs and PhDs, within Europe at least, an integrated masters is treated identically to a separate one.. No actually, Astrophysics was just my chosen pathway because I was interested in the subject. My PhD will actually be a mixture of materials science and Photonics, researching methods of improving magnetic data storage devices by integrating photonic devices, among other things. The nature of the PhD means I haven't chosen my particular project yet but that's the general idea!. I absolutely loved Astrophysics. My university has a strong astro department so my lecturers were very good, very passionate about what they do. In the end I chose a different path for further study partly for career reasons (though I am of course interested in the path of physics I am taking), but it was a very difficult choice. Astrophysics was always my best subject, it's endlessly fascinating. And when you have class topics like 'Black Holes and General Relativity' you start to feel very science-y :P. If you're EVER going to do anything past bachelor's, and you think it'll probably be physics/astronomy, you absolutely should do physics undergrad. You'll be way too behind the curve to be a competitive candidate otherwise.. We're all actually very normal people - don't believe everything you see on the big bang theory :P. Two photons are checking in to their flight.

The attendant asks, "You don't have any luggage?"

"No, we're traveling light.". There was a young lady named Bright,

Who travelled much faster than light.

She set out one day, in a relative way,

And returned on the previous night. . >  physics jokes

You definitely need to check out /r/physicsjokes . [Have some music](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/fd/06/60/fd0660e2e6c2322c967f71596b2e4d07.jpg). A theoretical particle, it doesn't exist. It was proposed as a neat way to counterbalance an inequality in an equation on quantum theory. As it turns out, we developed a better model that didn't require tachyons to address a discrepancy, and we've since found out that tachyons don't actually exist. . wikibot, what is tachyon?. Well, it can form a few unstable compounds with great difficulty in its plasma state.. 43 checking in. I left my astro PhD program 10 years ago (no regrets), and I just started a physics PhD program a few months ago.. 17 and interested in astrophysics, what are the possibilities for employment with a degree in astrophysics.. Science needs more fans . Yeah this was the general consensus with all our lecturers. They said they would much rather work with mature students as opposed to 'immature' students as they called them.. Do it!. Do it mate. I've been an electrician for 10 years. In my second year of college maths before going into uni next year to study either astro or particle physics, haven't decided which yet.. I'm very focused, much more than when I was attending college in my early 20's.  My learning capacity is strong and doesn't feel it's degraded over the years while my memory seems as good as ever.  People tell me that they are inspired by what I'm doing, but don't feel their "mature" brains could handle doing academics.  Hogwash!  With that said, I think our adult responsibilities (family, work, etc...) makes it tough.  When I attended college in my twenties I was way too distracted with all the wrong things, and always regretted not finishing.  Now, I have a tech manufacturing job, make a very decent living, but don't feel fulfilled with it.  Sometimes I wonder if anything will become of my degree because of my age - will I be employable or deemed over the hill.  Regardless, I am determined to finish and give a career change my best go. Fortunately I still look very young for my age and have very good health.  Most people are shocked to learn the truth (even the kids at school thought I was in my 30s so that felt good).  Ultimately, I say if you are unhappy with your current employment and are considering a college education then at least give it a shot.  Don't discourage yourself in the process by overloading the first semester.  Take only a course or two depending on your daily responsibilities.  The experience will be rewarding, and doesn't come without it's challenges.  But then, what does?

Edit. grammar. Even that is ludicrously extreme. Yer an astrophysicist, Harry!

. I had a wand tucked in my belt under my robes at this year's convocation.. When I was a kid, I thought scientists were a lot like wizards and super heros. I thought you had to be born into it, as if there were no real way to become such a thing. After 11 years in I.T. I'm proud to say I have 2 years left in my B.S. in Physics. It takes a lot of work to walk down this path and every time I see someone succeed it gives me a little more faith in humanity. Congratulations, and this photo is absolutely fantastic! I can't wait for my chance to become a wizard too :)

Edit: grammar. My training only lets me estimate based on spherical physicists in a vacuum. OP unsurprisingly cannot answer this question without further calculations. . I'm 5'4'' but had 2-ish inch heels on. Congratulations, also you both should continue talking. Who knows what else you'll have in common. Ahhh this is so exciting. . Fine, fine, I'll just muon to the next pun.. Not really, it's just university dependant. My GF graduated from Queens with an MSci in just Physics. Had I done the same course to OP I would have graduated from my English university with an MPhys (regardless of the maths component). 

. >somewhere between a bachelor's and a full postgraduate masters

OK but then it should be called that. (though what  you describe still sounds like undergrad to me). Exactly, my SO has a BA and an MSc but it's still four years of work - the MSci just means I did all four in one go as opposed to graduating and re-applying. Wow. Relativity is one of the thing that really make me consider Astro as a path. My other big contender is Particle and Nuclear Physics (It's one single department in my university, idk about others). 

What path are you taking, if it's not too private, i'm really curious to what is available worldwide. :$. Lol no way. I have a masters in engineering and I am working in semiconductors physics.. :) . Two kittens on a sloped roof. Which one slides off first?
The one with the lowest mew.. A proton and an electron pass each other in the street.  
The electron stops the proton and asks "did you lose your charge?"  
The proton says no.  
The electron asks "are you sure?"  
The proton says "I'm positive." . LOL
. Wait. I was just reading about the higgs boson and they used the adjective tachyonian to describe a property of said boson. Anything from working at a planetarium to operating space telescopes to studying exoplanets. . Yesterday you said tomorrow, JUST DO IT. What's ludicrous is people staying on a path they don't want to go down, because of pressure to have a 'career' etc. About 50% of my mature students course were people who had accquired degrees and worked in sectors they weren't happy in.. I switched from EE to Physics (well, more like managed to tack on a double major). Other engineering branches aren't that close to physics really. Civil Eng. in fact is probably one of the branches furthest from physics, not to mention astrophysics. So he can't really double major easily.

With that in mind, a large number of engineering students, mainly those from other countries, are fascinated by physics and given the chance would've studied it instead but they faced a lot of pressure to graduate from an "employable" degree.

For example: I'm hispanic. Growing up there was some pressure from my family to either be a doctor, lawyer, engineer or soldier. My uncle (from my spanish side) wanted to be a writer, but he was forced into engineering. I myself initially got into EE b/c it combined comp. sci w/ physics, yet found myself unsatisfied but thankfully my parents are more open-minded and after some discussion they were fine with me studying physics.

A famous Spanish philosopher once said: 
> A man is the man and his circumstances.

Keep that in mind next time you decide to be a judgemental prick.. Imma wot?. That's a pretty accurate description of most of them, in a way. . Oh, Bravo.. Is this in QUB? I think my friend met him today as well.. Stop it, you're killing me!. That's why it's an MSci as opposed to an MSc. That's me! I got a mention! Whoo! 

(I also, poorly, took the photo). May have been a bit misleading - we only touched on general relativity when learning about black holes - it would be a whole class in itself. We did however have classes on special relativity in first and third year, and it was one of my favourite classes. I enjoyed nuclear physics too, and I really loved particle physics although we only did a little bit - it's not something my university has a research department in. We have a strong solid state physics department, which is the path I've chosen to pursue for my PhD, as well as high energy plasma physics - my university is currently upgrading its TARANIS laser to become the most powerful university-run laser in the world - so those classes are well taught too. The subjects in which your university has a strong research department will most likely have the best teachers, and good teachers make physics so much better. But it's also so important to go with what you're interested in, it makes it easier to spend hours and hours studying it :P. As for my path, I've explained in the comments that I'll be working in a combination of materials science and Photonics - magnets and lasers basically :P. There are tachyon *fields*, yes. But no particle can travel faster than light, so the tachyon particle remains unproven.

Quantum fields with negative mass (Don't ask me how these occur. I don't have the background, or the space to explain such a thing even if I did!) are generally referred to as tachyonic fields because of the implication of faster than light travel. They contain no tachyons, but can behave in similar fashion. . Is the job market difficult to break into?. Don't let your dreams be dreams!  . Yes, that is ludicrous as well. Both are ludicrous. But your point being ludicrous doesn't make mine any less ludicrous though.. Cool story, but none of that has anything to do with how ridiculous an idea it is to make a decision that will basically define the next 4 years of your life off one line on reddit.. Are you on the cover of a physics magazine? Because you should be their Standard Model.. I meant w/o the word masters ... as if its a masters degree

i wasnt trying to lesser what you have done, sorry. I get there is a difference with the under grad vs under grad + more research and is a difference level of accomplishment. I do find it odd the school calling it a masters though.. The hidden love of a robot and some fruit finally revealed!. Thanks so much for your time and advices! I've still got plenty of time to choose, but you know it's never to early to at least start thinking about it! Thank you again! :). Not especially. If you do well enough in school and get the right connections in your internships, it can be fairly easy.. You seem to have no reading comprehension. Try again.. That last one was kind of a stretch. You need to find the redshift on that . Just cause america does it differently mate, doesn't mean our degrees are worth any less. A combined masters in Europe is treated exactly the same as doing one separately.. They do offer postgraduate masters too, but only in a few areas - materials science and plasma physics I think. I'm not sure why it is this way, all I know is it says 'Master of Science' on my degree certificate!. No problem, if you have any other questions feel free to ask, more than happy to help a fellow physicist!. No you seem to have gotten all emotional and splurged some irrelevant rhetorical bullshit. Help me out here and explain why anything you said has any relevance to making life decisions based off a random reddit comment.. I said nothing about combined vs separate. 

what was described was  undergrad, undergrad +  more research , masters. I just don't think the undergrad + some more research is the same as a masters (as thats still just undergrad in the US, nothing about its worth)
. Thank you so much! As a last question, out of curiosity... Which University are you/did you study(ing) in? 

(Mine is the University of Valencia, in Spain) . I'll keep it simple. Not everyone has the choice to study their passion. 

This guy probably couldn't. Maybe he simply fell in love with physics a little too late. Point is, he didn't enter physics.

What we do know is he's been contemplating to take a risk and go for it. Probably a long time. This is simply the little push he needed to get off the fence and decide.

What's illogical here? He had two options: study physics eventually or never study it. The comment was the external emotional validation/affirmation he needed.


If you're trying to find an ultimate, objective, logical reason you probably won't find it. Emotions are hardly fully logical.. What defines a master in the US then? . I'm at Queen's University Belfast in Northern Ireland!. >This is simply the little push he needed to get off the fence and decide.

Yep, and that is what I am saying is utterly foolish. If the tipping point for your life decision is a random comment from a stranger on the internet, you are being a fool. Its something that you need to spend months thinking about, speak to actual real people in actual real conversations about, look up the details of the course, look up past exam papers (if he's doing engineering they should make some sense to him already) etc. And if he's done all that, he will have already made a decision regardless of what some random on reddit has to say.. Most bachelor science degrees I've seen are 4 years + a project in the final year.  Masters would be 1 or 2 (usually two) more years in a specialized area possibly plus another project.. Thing is I understand him. I was on the fence. Researched it for months and months. I was still undecided until I saw a Feynman interview. I saw and said "Fuck it, let's do it.". Yeah I originally did a degree in classics and switched to physics after graduating. I spent months researching it, learning the maths and talking to universities, and looking back on it now it was still a very rash decision. What I understand is the temptation to throw caution to the wind, and make snap calls based off feel-good reddit threads, but it is a foolish thing to do. Thankfully it worked out ok for me, but many people on my course dropped out, half the mature students in the first year, because that line of thinking (or lack of) ended them up somewhere they didn't actually want to be. Melting and evaporating on an atomistic level. nan. This is a molecular dynamics simulation of argon atoms that I made with GROMACS and visualized in Blender. The simulation is also part of a longer video about: "What is Temperature?" - A surprisingly tough question to answer: https://youtu.be/0P0R7D2sMQI. Shouldn’t the temperature remain constant during melting and boiling? :0 but nice simulation!. 180 degrees in half a ns! wow!. It'd be cool to see this simulation keep going until a plasma is formed and see all the different charges and stuff flying around. I'm curious about the boundary condition that you used for the box, it's periodic, isn't it?. Love to see some love for atomistic modeling on this sub. Underrated among physicists (not engineers) imo. Next turn each of those balls in to a cluster of it's own and show the transition to plasma as the atoms pull themselves apart!. I’m confused by the transition between liquid and gas. There doesn’t seem to be any difference between the two (besides the temperature). Is there something I’m missing?. *checks timer*

*checks temperature*

Well that escalated quickly.. Why do I hear [this](https://youtu.be/bQ0xbGKkWoA), when I watch this video on this post? :-p. It would have been interesting if you try to generalize a bit, by showing that the micro-canonical definition of temperature based on probability could be extended to other non-physical systems that nevertheless have some sort of probability measure in them, like information and finance.  Maybe a follow up?  In fact, there are even attempts to use a similar definition of temperature for non-equilibrated, non-thermal systems, like sand dunes.  In short, this sort of highlights the power of looking more deeply into questions like this.

e:  also, there are other definitions as well, even though in thermal equilibrated systems various definitions match, they do not necessarily have to in other systems.. You just say atomic.. Drooling in CFD.. Browns movement. 0 Kelvin ಠ_ಠ

/s. Van der waal's betch. cool. err, I mean, hot?. Did anyone else immediately regard it as a butter molecule?. [deleted]. Nice simulation ⭐️ I’ve made a very similar simulation for my master thesis (chemical vapor deposition during thin film growth). Great work, very impressive. Can you say how you distinguish whether the system is in a liquid or gas phase, it seems like it's hard to tell from the animation (I would just guess it goes directly from solid to gas phase).. What substance becomes liquid at appr. 70 Kelvin?. Water wouldn’t look like that, right? Ice is less dense than liquid. Fantastic thanks. This makes my heart happy!. Put this into a pot and, magically, you have Feynman lecture #1 about motion, but in motion.. Thanks for sharing this.. Used GROMACS for this, right? Really neat simulation.. u/savevideo. What's the difference between the words "atomic" and "atomistic"?. How do I reverse this?. I love this! Can you please add little smiley faces onto the bubbles?. Shake that thing miss can i can i. Jeordy and Rebekkeh.. So added energy puts the electrons in an excited state that causes them to pick up speed in vibrations?. u/savevideo. u/vredditdownload. What if you increase the density of the atoms in a gas and turn up the temperature? Like if there's no space in between them so they are as tightly together as if it was solid but far beyond the temperature for it to be actually solid... What would happen then?. You have it melting at 50 K and vaporizing at 129 K.

Argon has melting and boiling points of 83 K and 87 K.  Why the discrepancy?. > argon

Lennard-Jones?. This is neat, can you do one with protons and electrons? Or is that not possible?. This is a really well made video! You just gained a new subscriber :). Is there any demonstration of the deposition of an element? (Also called sublimation). This is very interesting and helpful visualization! I just graduated with my BS in physics, and I feel like computational techniques and CS skills broadly are my biggest weak point. Can you recommend any resources specifically for physicists to improve their modeling and CS skills? Thanks!. It's interesting to me that I thought about and visualized this a few weeks ago. And my visualization of the process looked similar to what you simulated there. 

So thanks for that, and keep going!. Any chance we could get a gravity version?. The system is not heated up with a constant flow of energy, but instead with a constant change in Temperature.

Technically, the temperature given, however, is the temperature of the thermostat coupled with the simulation. As I am heating up so fast, the system has not time to fully equilibrate to the temperature of the thermostat.. More like an explosion than heating. Unfortunately, I don't think that's doable with this simulation approach since the molecules aren't modeled at the subatomic level. You'd need to model the electrons and ions separately to allow ionization.. yes exactly, it is periodic. The atom's get more diffuse. In molecular dynamics, it's traditional to say "atomistic."

This is both to prevent confusion with processes occurring within a single atom, and to emphasize that the simulations deal with "atoms" according to the original definition of the term (indivisible minimal elements of a whole) as opposed to being a continuum simulation.. Not of argon.. In the solid state the atoms are shaking, but not changing their general position in the droplet. 

In the liquid state the atoms are mobile inside the droplet.. To add to OP's answer : yes there exists methods to determine the state of the simulated material from an "objective" (ie quantifiable) point of view, rather than checking wether the atoms are shaking or not. The two most used  methods are the evaluation of Radial Distribution Functions (RDFs) and the Velocity Autocorrelation function. RDFs gives you average distribution of neighboring atoms around a given species : the dictribution will flatten as your maetrial transitions from solid to liquid to gas. VACFs will indicate if your system is in a homogeneous state over time. More info here : [https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Molecular\_Simulation/Radial\_Distribution\_Functions](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Molecular_Simulation/Radial_Distribution_Functions). A lot of gases.  Oxygen 54, Nitrogen 63, Argon 83.

The labeling and equilibration is a bit wonky; the OP was nominally using Argon.. Nitrogen is at 63, oxygen and fluorine around 53, argon at 83. Correct.  [You'd get something that looks more like this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NQhjAtCKghE).  Disclaimer: Water is an incredibly difficult substance to model; I've not looked deeply into that video, but it'd not surprise me if it's wrong by at least a factor of two somewhere.. I think the early melting is because it is such a tiny drop. Small drops are mainly characterized by surface atoms, that have fewer binding partners and therefore a lower melting point compared to argon atoms in a large bulk. 

Also, technically, the temperature given, is the temperature of the thermostat coupled with the simulation. As I am heating up so fast, the system has not time to fully equilibrate to the temperature of the thermostat. So, there is still some liquid argon at temperatures beyond the boiling point simply because the system had not enough time to equilibrate yet.. Nanogranules melt at lower *T* than bulk material because of the higher surface/volume ratio.. Not sure if it is related or not but i want to add regarding boiling ( but take my word as the grain of salt (maybe teaspoon) because i last read about tgis a long while ago ). Liquid can exist past it boiling point at given pressure up to quite a large temperature, for water, thereotically it could reach up to 100 to 200. The state of material was unstable equilibrium. The mechanism of boiling at that state is that liquid molecule with high kinetic energy naturally form vapor bubble. But we less likely to see this in everyday fluid is because most of boiling and evaporation we see is from nucleate boiling (superheated surface nucleate bubble) and evaporation (due to smaller vapor pressure). I guess the reason for argon to vaporize at larger temperature was due to this simulation only simulate the kinetic energy, not bubble nucleation on a superheated surface. Melting and boiling points also depend on the pressure as far as I know. May be this simulation has non conventional boundary values. And the whole simulation takes 0.53 nanoseconds? Do you have any idea how short a nanosecond is! One second is 1000000000 nanoseconds! I call bullshit on everything in this post.. This is a molecular dynamics simulation, which simulates each atom as a single particle - i.e. they aren't used to look at subatomic structure like protons and electrons. They're usually purely classical simulations without any quantum mechanics, although you might add in some approximate effects. Electrons however show very strong quantum effects - you get an "electron cloud" rather than a nicely behaved particle. So you would have to totally change the simulation approach, and it could take more than a hundred times as long to run.. You could do it, it's known as Born-Oppenheimer Molecular Dynamics. It's costly.. Great. Thanks!. Since we're asking for clarification, shouldn't the label "gas" only be written out when 100% of the material has evaporated? I'm still seeing a high-density volume/condensation of atoms just as if the material hasn't evaporated fully just yet, even though the label already has gone from "liquid" to "gas". Or is that a misunderstanding of the definition of "gas"?. How exactly is temperature increased in md simulations? Just a % increase of any and all velocity vectors?

Edit: Thinking about it, increasing all velocities seems stupid...but what's the process.. Ohhhh that makes sense :0 hahaha misunderstanding from my part. Thanks for the clarification. What would you have to do to this model and how would it look?. I wonder if a reflective boundary condition would have been more appropriate? The molecules seem to collide with each other in your case, right?. What does that mean?. Hmmm  
  
A google search for "atomic level" returns 2,870,000,000 results.  
  
A google search for "atomistic level" returns 100 results.  
  
  
  
    x to doubt  
  
It might be an 'atomistic simulation' but it's on or at an 'atomic level'.. I was actually talking about how the temperature would feel like. I see, thanks. Why is there a second clump forming on the left when it's in the gas phase?. I'd argue that MSD would be  decent measure for the solid-liquid transition -- in a solid it's doing to be significantly sublinear, while in a liquid it will be linear until you reach the scale of the whole droplet.. Cool simulation! Is the heating done at a linear temperature rate? 183 K in 0.55 ns seems like it is basically an explosion.. this might be either a stupid question or just overthinking it... but when you're looking at such a small number of atoms, don't the concepts of "state of matter" and "transition points" start to get a lot looser? Kinda like radioactive decay and half life, they're somewhat fundamentally bulk properties that need a statistically large sample size to really get a strict meaning.

So, if I'm at all close to right on that, would that line up with what you're saying about the tininess of the drop causing some deviation from the textbook transition temperatures?. Yeah I was going to ask about the heating rate.  Is that an actual simulation of adding heat energy or are you just plugging in a K/ns into the sim?  340+K/ns seems extremely high, but maybe it makes sense when you're only dealing with a handful of atoms. Dumb question by why run so fast?  Computation savings?. That's about right for this scale.

The entire box is something like 10nm across, and at 100K your average argon particle velocity is ~175 m/s.. It would be pretty trivial to run a full DFT (so, quantum-ish) simulation with molecular dynamics using say, SIESTA. Obviously not with subatomic modeling, but this would be pretty easy to re-run with what the other commenter described.. Damn, okay thanks. Well, at the transition there is a coexistence of gas and liquid. To be 100% precise, I could have written both I guess, but I wanted to keep things simple.. There are various methods. If I recall correctly, I used stochastic velocity rescaling for this simulation: https://aip.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1063/1.2408420?journalCode=jcp. I am a student doing some computational plasma physics, so I think about one end of these processes, where nearly everything is already ionized and we just think of electrons and ions as two different species that we keep track of in the simulation. However, temperatures are sometimes low enough that neutral atoms persist and we keep track of those as well. In any particle-in-cell simulation we have all our different particle species flying around and occasionally coming near one another, so there is a chance of collision. Rather than model the quantum mechanical processes of ionization or recombination (of an electron and ion into a neutral atom) directly, we use a table of "cross-sections" that give a probability for that process to occur based on the relative speeds of the particles. 

In case it's not familiar, "cross-section" is a term from particle physics. Subatomic particles are *not* tiny hard spheres, but if you know the probability of a process happening for some particle interaction, there is an equivalent size of hard sphere that would have that probability of interaction. Crucially, cross-sections are different for different processes (e.g., scattering of two protons off each other is generally way more likely than fusion) and vary with velocity (e.g., an electron moving slowly relative to a proton is more likely to form an atom than a fast electron, so temperature dependence of recombination is built in). 

This approach is likely more effective in dealing with the gas-plasma transition, but not very good at modeling solids, I expect. If you want to get crystal structures right you need density functional theory or something like it; ask a condensed matter physicist about that!

Disclaimer: I'm just a student, and I'm not at all sure if this is the best way to approach this problem! Fun question to think about regardless.. Periodic boundaries are used to mimic the situation in a larger system, without a lot of surface effects.. Atoms that leave the box on one side reenter on the opposite side.. I've never heard the phrase "atomistic level" either. (ETA: On further reflection, I realize that I've actually heard it many times.) I'm just explaining why a molecular dynamics (MD) person would lean toward using the word "atomistic." The second definition of "atomistic" that comes up on google is the operative one here: "2. Composed of many simple elements". 

If you don't believe me that MD people say "atomistic" then I don't know what to tell you. [It's demonstrably true.](https://pls.llnl.gov/people/divisions/physics-division/condensed-matter-science-section/eos-and-materials-theory-group/methods/atomistic-simulation-molecular-statics-and-molecular-dynamics). The simulation has periodic boundary conditions. When atoms leave on one side they reenter on the opposite side. This is a trick to simulate a small volume without having a lot of surface artifacts.

At some point in the video the droplet is moving through the periodic boundaries.. When you consider the volumetric expansion of the substance you realise it is an explosion.. Yes, you’re right, you need to be in the thermodynamic limit for those terms to be strictly true, but plenty of literature uses results from smaller atomistic simulations like this (maybe not this small, something closer to the order of 10k or 100k). Can’t comment on whether that’s why it melts faster or not. Im plugging in K/ns, and yes it is extremely fast, but otherwise the video would have gotten very long.. I guess I was working on sort of thing about 15 years ago, where a small research group would struggle to run more than a couple dozen particles with DFT.. Yeah but as you stated the system is heated up with a constant change in temperature, and that transition region you're talking about only takes place at the boiling temperature. If you quickly step through the boiling temp, the material should instantly boil completely and be gaseous. The transition region is ignored by stepping through temperatures the way you are.. By periodic, it means that particle's distances "wrap around", right?   
A given particle is counted only once? Or are distances considered through all six box sides?. >If you don't believe me that MD people say "atomistic" then I don't know what to tell you. It's demonstrably true.  
  
Which would be fine and dandy, because I **never** suggested anything of the sort.  
  
They guy said; on an atomistic level.  
  
Now, as I demonstrated, for all intents and purposes nobody in the world says that.  
  
You just say.... atomic.. Are the atoms moving around or the molecules?. Couldn't you have just proportionally changed the time scaling of the video?. 
Ooh interesting! I suppose computers (and codes) have improved a bit in the past 20 years. 

For plane-wave basis DFT, that would totally suck. For clever LCAO basis DFT with finite-radius interactions, the Spanish government funded SIESTA and it's theoretically going to make my life a lot easier once I can get it running on our cluster 😅. Ah yes - that's potentially a flaw in the animation! The temperature shouldn't increase while the remaining liquid is boiling. It should only start to increase once everything has boiled.. The word that's actually "wrong" is 'level'.

"atomistic scale" is the more common phrasing.. I just did a google search for the phrase "atomistic level" and got 219,000 results, not 100. Basically all of those hits were in a molecular dynamics context. So, yes, in MD people say "atomistic level."

I think the main reason for this is that "atomic level" has an association with atomic physics, which MD is certainly distinct from.. Wouldn't the atoms then have to move with their actual speed and therefore be a simple blur in the video.. I think this was plane wave DFT, running on like 32 cores or something.. This is true. I've seen and used the phrase "atomistic scale" more often than "atomistic level."

My intent was just to provide some context for the use of the slightly-odd word "atomistic," but this is the internet so naturally it had to get crazy.. atomistic level, 100 results  
  
"on an atomistic level", 86 results  
  
"at an atomistic level", 76 results     
  
[atomistic level](https://i.imgur.com/L0OdULt.png)  
  
["on an atomistic level"](https://i.imgur.com/8g3wqSd.png)  
  
["at an atomistic level"](https://i.imgur.com/yDmVBtV.png). [Atomistic Level.](https://i.imgur.com/dJfNlmP.jpg) 17.7 million hits for me. (With quotes around the phrase, I get 219,000 hits.)

I don't know what's going on with google, but my original intention was not to start an argument. I was trying to *explain* to anyone who isn't familiar with the slightly-odd term "atomistic" where it comes from and why it appears in this context.. And what does the very first hit in your search result actually say???  
  
 ATOMIC **LEVEL**  
  
https://i.imgur.com/TKTWKmn.png. Yes, both phrases appear in that particular result. So what? In the context of Molecular Dynamics, people do indeed say "atomistic level." I'm not saying that no one also uses the phrase "atomic level."

(Why is this ridiculous argument still ongoing? Why am I bothering with this??). Because you're incapable of admitting you're wrong. My dad gave me his collection today before I go off to college :). nan. 1) These books were important to him. He kept them, and he kept them in good condition.

2) He gave them to you, and likely has been planning this for a while given the day he did it.

Conclusion: he's really proud of you.. I see Landau-Lifshitz, I upvote. 

No seriously though, it’s probably the hardest theoretical mechanics book out there but if you work through that one you are REALLY good at mechanics.. Ah, I see he has Jackson's E&M. Please ask him about his experience with that book. If I recall correctly, it has been used to put grad students on their knees for over 40 years. . Is your dad looking to adopt a second child . Your dad is a nerd.. Wow, I'm jelly. That's a solid collection. How much of it have you looked at?
. You will become an expert in physics as it was understood in 1962. That landau & lifshitz mechanics text is my all time ALL TIME favorite mechanics text book.  It's nearly the inverse of the standard pedagogy and I love it to death.  You want to know why conservation of energy and mass is a thing?  BAM! Isotropic and homogeneous assumptions on the universe fall right out.  You want to know how to find the equations of motion for pretty much anything? BAM.  Lagrangian mechanics in 2 pages, and I hope you saved time for Hamiltonian methods because they're coming in HOT.

Gods damn I love that book...

And it's so cute and tiny! Easy to carry around anywhere.  So so good.





You can burn that JD Jackson EM book though...  *Stares blankly into the distance* . Apparently "Relativity Groups and Topology" is rare and valuable. Currently going for (US) $713 used on Amazon:

https://www.amazon.com/gp/offer-listing/B0071ITUSC/ref=dp_olp_used_mbc?ie=UTF8&condition=used. Your dad is awesome!. Is that a 1st edition goldstein CM book? The modern version is soooo good IMO. Hopefully yours is just as awesome. I'd start with that one!. Your dad sounds awesome!. landau & lifshitz 💕. All my dad gave me was his playboys.  . It's a very good selection, late 70s I guess. Your father has excellent taste in physics.. This makes my mouth water.. 😩 what a collection . I envy you.i want all these books.Least i can do is save this pic.Can i ?. Thats a beautiful set OP. 

Which field of Physics are you invested in?. That’s awesome. He kept it all in great condition to.. Have you read the Musil? If not, definitely take that and work through it. One of the great C20th novels!. 30 books to read before collapsing into a black hole . *First day of classes, professor reviews collection.*

Prof: “I see.  Well OP, if you’d checked the syllabus you’d see this semester it’s required that you purchase [insert next edition of every single fucking book].”

*OP sells kidney to afford exact same books with three words changed throughout the entire book, that’s now the newest edition.*. SPLOOSH. Goldstein: Relatively well-known grad level text

Jackson: The text 1st year graduate students love to hate.

L&L: classics

DeWitt: big name in relativity.

&#x200B;

Your dad is probably a professor at an American university.. So cool!. Good luck surviving college! Thats a lot of reading materials your dad has. Got a lot of reading to do. :). Seriously wow that is awesome!. Fuck damn! Usually I have to go online to get my books, and it's not as nice as the physical books. Is he a physicist, does he have an interest in physics, or did he buy those books used? . I didn't see the sub for a sec and assumed this was r/vinyl. I think this is a much rarer collection to pass on! Really meaningful that he kept these texts and gave them to you to have for your studies. Heck, why not start on them right now, just for fun? There's never too much to learn. . I don't see the big GR book. No Griffiths or Boas?. Good luck finding time to read them. I gathered 100+ books from my physics and astronomy professors that were retiring, and I am just starting to read them 3 years after I graduated . That's beautiful.. The random copies of Robert Musil’s “Man Without Qualities”. Your dad’s a weird dude! That is a pretty obscure Austrian author from the early 20th century. Check it out if you ever need a break from physics :-). That’s easily $50k in text books. . Red Jackson is best Jackson. 

I say this as one who has taught the course. Fuck SI units sideways. . Just amazing . What a cool dad!. Classical theory of fields - whilst not useful at early level, will be your bible if you decide to go down the theoretical route later on. . Good grief. He must be a wise wizard indeed.. That gonna be fun. Power move: Show up to class every day carrying this stack. . The classical theory of fields by Landau/Lifshitz is probably one of the most beautiful texts ever in physics, but it takes your brain out, makes a big smush off it, rewires the neurons, and when you put it back, you are a different person. 

&#x200B;

That book by Schwinger on Quantum Kinematics is pretty good and very non-standard. 

&#x200B;

Have fun!. You're lucky.. Your dad... Really loves you.. I’ll be very happy when all this is easily accessible  online.. Looks like a fantastic collection. My greatest regret so far has been not understanding maths and physics to a decent standard, I'd love to understand that kind of research.. Good luck using those, almost none of the concepts have changed but the question numbers are very different for non reason. Great! Now spend $140 on the online access code for your weekly quizzes :). Like father, like son . Worth a whole $12.50 at the return counter at college bookstores... smh. Sweet! A hobby I have is finding old books and I found a physics textbook from 1912; it’s cool.. You lucky guy!!! 
I'd read all of that.. Wouldn't mind having that on my book case. Jackson’s Electrodynamics-it’s a doozy. I took a class using that book. The homework problems, ugh!!. not dead mass. . I he hoarded "Everyone poops". Aint there a lot of debts and other bullshit you gotta worry about now because you’re going to college?. Consider adopt me. I envy you. wow some groups books!. The real question is where he left "Theoretical Physics 1".
You have some shoes to fill son, make your dad proud and become better in physics than him, it will be hard but you have a great teacher. . What are you studying?. Is your dad a professor?. Jackson...*shudder*. Group theory in physics.... gosh, I love physics and I am actively studying it at home, and I am planning to get a degree in it my self as soon as I get financially stable, but I completely hate that part of it. . Political science major?. That's so cool :D. What is the classical theory of fields?. Good luck in college!. You guys are so lucky ahah . I have the same books!. I'll steal that pic and pretend it's mine. And WOW! Your dad is actually a super geek!! Because remember (no matter what you have read here)... ** GEEK ≠ NERD** and usually geeks are way much better! >__0. A lot of these are standard texts for graduate level coursework.  Looks like he gave you something to work up to.  Good luck, there's a lot of fun in there. . Quantum mechanics are gonna be fun . I still have all my old textbooks from 25 years ago.  My kids took no interest in science or engineering.. According to American prices this would be a good few thousand bucks. . Nice. There's some good stuff in there, although Jackson Electrodynamics is the bane of my existence.. Yeah physics is the best. I absolutely love old physics textbooks. Landau & Lifshitz is excellent. They simply don't make them like they used to.. Whilst you are at it read Paul's online math notes and get Stroud engineering mathematics for reference. I have 2 of those books, and I studied engineering. Comment below with your numbers.. This is actually beautiful. I hope to do something similar in about 11 years when my tiny human goes to college.... . One day I hope to be in the same situation as your Dad. Must be a good feeling to share this interest with your own child and being able to support him/her.... I bet your dad watches rick and morty everyday. I'm so jealous. I'm fucking burning right now.. A lot of good books in there. Keep them in good condition while you use them ;]

You will learn to hate Jackson like the rest of us... No Griffiths? :/

Also, I've never heard of quantum kinematics.. Nerd 😀. Who in Dirac’s name is your father? But with no disrespect, there aren’t any of Weinberg’s or Peskin books on QFT.

And while we’re on the matter, I believe the new Lancaster and Blundell book “QFT for a Gifted Amateur” are better.. I can guaran-damn-tee you that Jackson's CED is something you will cherish. It's one of the most helpful books I had in my modest library during my program. . Can anybody please tell me one thing...WHY THE FUCK does nobody have any book on Electronics and Optics in their shelves???!! I have also seen book recommendations videos on YouTube. None of them give any book on Optics or Electronics!

Just fucking WHY? Optics and Electronics are two of the most important part of Physics! Then why does nobody seem to talk about it?. Classical Electrodynamics of Jackson is the best Electrodynamics book I know.. Such a beautiful collection of classics ! 
I studied with some of them 😭. It's funny, we both did two years of electrical engineering and then switched into physics. He never told me how much it meant to him until I switched. Thank you so much for the kind words, it means a lot! . Hmmm Good thing OP chose physics and not, say, chemistry.. I'm not crying, you're crying!. Yes, fellow human.. Landau books are always hard as hell - especially their assigment.. I came here to say the same. My lagrangian mechanics (and also favourite) prof said any real physicist has this on their bookshelf. When you read it you get what she meant, though it is almost elegant to a fault. . He couldn't stop praising them, I've never seen him happier than looking at those books again! I can't wait to get into them some day . > No seriously though, it’s probably the hardest theoretical mechanics book out there but if you work through that one you are REALLY good at mechanics.

Try Arnold.. Not sure if Landau wrote texts for Mechanics for undergrads and grads, but my junior mechanics Prof used that book like crazy. Good thing I read it too. . He showed me his transcript from Columbia today, he had As in everything except E&M, where he had Cs. It certainly put him on his knees . People refer to them by their color. I was taught with the blue version, but my prof always complained about the mixed use of units.... [deleted]. So glad our prof had us use a different text (modern electrodynamics by Zangwill). Yes, a brutal book to learn from. But it's a really great reference you've already figured it out once.. The pain, the beauty.. Unfortunately the second edition is a bit outdated. It's in CGS units which are actually very common in the field of magnetism but these units are rarely used elsewhere and make normally familiar equations look very different. The third edition is, I believe, the latest. It's in MKS units.. [deleted]. Tears and nervous laughs happened when he died, on my former department. A beautiful pain that united professors and students.. After I passed that course I never opened that text again. I was a bit traumatized. . I prefer Griffiths. Jackson was always too much for me. I'll ask for you! . And we're all jealous. Big fricken nerd—probably wears glasses, ha!. I've started on the mathematics of classical and quantum physics, I'm only an undergrad haha. Still have much to learn . mrw my PI hands me a stack of 1989 semiconductor texts to understand carbon nanotubes :|. Electrodynamics hasn't changed much since then. He did go to grad school in the 70s, so that would make sense! .  Several of those books are still used today . The conventions and nomenclature between the two eras are so different, it's really not worth learning from old physics books.. Why do you say that? As far as EM books goes, I've heard Jackson is one of the best. Yeah that knocked my socks off when I first read that. . [Hitler Jackson E&M](https://youtu.be/mm-4PltMB2A). How much math do you need as a prereq for Landau Lifshitz? I borrowed a few of the books but couldn't get very far into them. . [http://libgen.io/search.php?req=Relativity+Groups+and+Topology&lg\_topic=libgen&open=0&view=simple&res=25&phrase=1&column=def](http://libgen.io/search.php?req=Relativity+Groups+and+Topology&lg_topic=libgen&open=0&view=simple&res=25&phrase=1&column=def). He is, thank you :) . I'll start on that book soon, thank you! . Yeah, newer versions are better organized and also expanded. Earlier versions don’t have as good a section on scattering. . Late 70s exactly. Some of the older ones even have the the equations handwritten, at least the books from India! . Of course :). Thank you! And I'm not sure yet. I've been studying electrical engineering for the past two years and I really think Id prefer theoretical to experimental work. . True facts. And the changes are negligible. Knocking the page numbers out of whack is the issue with the “new content”. A savvy publisher would add new pages like 77a. 77b. But where’s the profit.... Almost all these books are classics that don't even have a newer edition.. he went into industry after a few years of research and is now retired! But he studied at Columbia in the 70s and 80s so that would explain the books . Actually any good grad student would have such a collection.. He got a phd in theoretical physics, these are all his grad school texts, with a few undergrad mixed in. . He probably did physics as an undergrad and kept all his textbooks. You can see the age on some of them, but they're in astoundingly good condition nevertheless.. Some of that is beyond undergrad. Never too much to learn?? I love spirit of that statement, but have you ever visited the physics section of a library?. I just entered a physics program after 2 years of electrical engineering. I can't wait to begin, I've been reading his Feynman lectures to prepare ! . There's the Weinberg one, which I rather prefer BTW.. Good eye, maybe I'll give it a shot! He's got literally thousands of books on all topics, he's lately been on a civil war (reconstruction) phase. . Then start saving for your back surgery. What a scam, I know.. . I've been in college for 2 years already, so I'm used to most of the bullshit on that front. Hopefully the debt won't be too bad! . Just undergrad physics for now, then hopefully grad school for something more specific! . He got his phd in physics (specifically QCD), but went into industry instead of becoming a professor . The electromagnetic field and the gravitational field (it's a book on EM and GR).. Griffiths' *Electrodynamics* is solid, but the kid is bound to destroy the curve in undergrad E&M with a leg up on Jackson, and a dad who ostensibly can tutor.. Thank you ;) . I recognize Bjorken & Drell I, II. Those were the standard back then. The ones you're talking about are from the 90s.. Strictly speaking, "electronics" is not a subject in physics; it is a subject in engineering. The governing principles of electronic part behavior may be explained through electrostatics, electrodynamics, and semiconductor physics. The applied aspect in electronics is a layer on top of that.  
Optics I usually see people have in their collection, but from what I've heard optics is often treated in electrodynamics texts. I can't personally testify to that though, as I have not progressed very far in my study of electrodynamics.. Funny you mention it, I’m now actually in the first year of my PhD and my electrodynamics final is in three weeks. We’re using Jackson and it’s been an utter nightmare. I much prefer Zangwill :). I feel you there, haha. One year of biomedical engineering before I added a math major, another year passes and I add an electrical concentration, another year still and here I am adding a physics degree... engineering just doesn't do physics enough justice!. Haha I feel that, I did 1.5 years of aerospace engineering then switched to physics, one of the best decisions I have ever made (started physics in January 2017)!!! There's a few of us from engineering, you're gonna love it.. I did the same (well, one year). Always loved physics but thought it would be better for finding a job. Found the entire first year incredibly boring until we did the semi-conductors part of one module - which was basically all physics. Lesson learnt - always do the things you find interesting.

No offence to EE graduates - I’m sure it would be the other way round for hem. . [removed]. I did the same thing! But my dad guilted me into finishing EE as a double major because I already did the first half. I don’t regret it, but my heart belongs to physics.. > 1.	⁠These books were important to him. He kept them, and he kept them in good condition.
> 2.	⁠He gave them to you, and likely has been planning this for a while given the day he did it.

So please take care of them too.. Can I have it?. I considered doing that a few years ago but didn’t have the balls to make the change :(. Hey, do you mind if I ask if your dad went on to grad school? I’m from Mexico, did a double major in physics and math in the US, and now I got an engineering job back home.

I wanted to go to graduate school but the job opportunity and the pay was good to pass. I’m wondering if this is something common that maybe your dad went through as well.

Thanks for your response.. Good luck! I actually went the other direction from Physics to EE. But I did walk away with my undergrad being Physics. . Holy! I've done 2 years of electrical engineering then switched to Physics and doing PhD right now. Some decent library here!. Damn chemists...... Group theory is still important in chemistry... it'd be something.. Or Communication. > any real physicist has this on their bookshelf.

Try to remember not to be a gatekeeper. The arrogant attitudes displayed by many in our community often drive out very intelligent people who might seriously contribute to the field but lack self confidence and feel they aren't "good enough" to be physicists.. >bookshelf. When you read it you get what she meant, though it is almost elegant to a fault.

Wait, Landau is a SHE? I never knew.  


EDIT: google it, it is a he. the guy must have switched it up when redditing.. For the level I was at when we used it first semester of college, Kleppner and Kolenkow felt absurd. Now that I'm a Ph.D. student, I really like Arnol'd. What have I become.... Oh my God the nightmare. One of my E&M profs at Columbia lamented that they can’t use that book any more. (We used Griffiths, who has great writing and horrendous problems in all of his books). I refer to my version as the blue copy from China printed on Bible-thin see-through pages (I was too poor for the domestic version) . Oh yeah, one of my professors decided to use that as textbook (i dont remember which volumes, though) for classical mechanics. He is Russian, so I guess that was the obvious choice for him. That one along with Fetter & Wallecka. Jesus Christ.... I still hate those books with passion. . [deleted]. Heresy. Red Jackson is best Jackson. . Only parts of the 3rd edition are in SI, which makes it super annoying. From a theoretical standpoint, Gaussian units make more sense as they make the connection with SR more transparent (e.g. by explicitly having factors of *c* instead of the permattivity/permeability). I had an old professor who complained that all the new EM books were only in SI because "kids these days" are too dumb to figure out how to use more than one system of units.. Bro, you pro. Most of us use it in grad school.. Caltech?. Hey it's me your brother. and is definitely still a virgin.. After you graduate, you'll realise you still have much to learn. Enjoy it. [deleted]. Jackson's em text is without question one of the single worst text books I have ever been forced to read.  He needlessly obfuscates the topic and demands of the reader an extreme amount of pointless algebraic masturbation just to get the tiniest, simplest idea across, when a simple sentence would do fine.


 It's almost like he purposefully made his course to be a rite of passage, or a trial by fire for physics grads.  If you have a good professor, you might glean some insight, but if you don't you'll have nothing to show for your efforts but stacks and stacks of computation filled paper.  It feels like he literally *wants* to make it difficult, just to lend authority to the field and nothing more.  Crucial insights and lemma are left as an "exercise for the reader", but a fundamental understanding of these are *required* to gain any meaningful understanding from the rest of the book.  


That kind of thinking is all over the book and it's the epitome of physicist ego and arrogance that so completely permeates certain departments and universities.  I slogged through two semesters of that bullshit and got nothing out of it until I took QED and things started to click.


At best JD Jackson's EM text is not a text book.  It's a reference manual.


At worst it's an over priced paper weight.

. YES! I absolutely LOVE that video. This is why [NTNU](https://www.ntnu.edu/) is great. You aren't forced to buy new editions every year.. Cool, what industry? (I may be looking for job ideas...). Is there an alternative to that? I mean, is there a thing like Modern Field Theory as opposed to classical?. I wish, he gave me all his old notes too and was devastated at how little he remembered! . Man, foreign Universities are so strange. In India, major emphasis is given on Optics and Electronics if you study Physics. Tell me about it - from biology to electrical to physics. I feel like it's all lead to this! . Thank you very much, it helps to hear that. I absolutely love every minute I spend learning it, so I'm confident it's the subject for me. . I’m going to start my second year on track for aerospace engineering and was wondering why you switched to physics? . [deleted]. yea. Absolutely! My dad got his bachelors and masters in India (it's a five year program there at the time) and then completed his phd at Columbia University in the US. He started off as an engineering student but switched into physics, but he went into a field unrelated to physics after completing his doctorate. I think that going into industry or engineering is a common path after a physics degree. . What I do?. Those bugtards apply what we think of, way too much!. They ruined chemistry!. You shouldn't be getting downvoted for this comment. You are right. Even if it stings. It happens, a lot.

My 1st year E&M teacher told me after the first test (I scored a high D) to "go pick an easier major, physics isn't for you." She soon was awarded an 1.5 million grant for research and she took it and left the university.

*waves his BS degree in physics* What now, lady?!?! I teach (High School) and love being a positive influence in my students' lives. . I thought a similar thing as I wrote it because the cult of genius surrounding physics is something that should die, but I don't believe she meant it that way. She definitely said a real physicist, but she is from Romania and I think she could have easily meant a hard physicist, or one that takes their work seriously. She would be the first to tell you you can't jump into a pool and swim without first treading water.  . Probs referring to the prof. The mechanics prof was a she.. Jackson is completely inappropriate for an undergraduate level E&M course. Even at the graduate level the book is more of a reference book than a text book, with serious effort needed by most people to look for additional information in a host of different math and physics books in order to understand the content. If Jackson was your main undergrad text book then you were almost certainly cheated out of a proper E&M education. . You were using Jackson as an undergrad book???  . Third, red cover, Indian edition. Poor grad students of the world, unite!. I'm not a big fan of Fetter & Wallecka, had to use that for my graduate mechanics course and didn't like it at all. The problems were difficult not because they were good problems but because it was extremely difficult to figure out what they were even asking for because the notation and typesetting was very sloppy.. I could never get the physical intuition either! But once I got it (from other books), I found it a useful reference. . [deleted]. Guy has never had sex. OP is adopted. Thank you very much . >At best JD Jackson's EM text is not a text book.  It's a reference manual.

This is strangely damning, haha.

You sound like you have been around the block of EM education, so I'd really like your opinion on Griffith's EM text. I believe the electrostatics/electrodynamics sequence I will be taking will use the fourth edition. I've read a good amount of his quantum text, and I have to say I wasn't super thrilled about the rigor of the mathematical treatment. 

Also-for a strong understanding of EM as a whole, especially with regard to nanoscale phenomena (my area of interest), what would you recommend as a supplement to Griffiths, if not Jackson?

&#x200B;. Get a copy of first-edition Jackson.  It’s significantly easier to read. And shorter.  The math is generally done in one dimension/variable, and the explanations are more straightforward.  In the 2nd edition, Jackson ran amok generalizing derivations in all dimensions then pontificated about nature.  

I have more general relativity texts than are shown here, and I’ve passed on some of my books to my (now Ph.D) daughter.. Really? I would say Jackson by far get the algebra across, which I preferred during radiative processes in undergraduate -- you know, working out stuff on own. I found it a necessary evil to go ahead with :P

That said, my reference for a \`bad' book is Rybicki and Lightman, Radiative processes.  Too many unclear assumption, and non-trivial triviality.. He went into the telecommunications industry as a network and systems engineer . [deleted]. Perhaps the physics programs you are acquainted with are applied/engineering physics? An electronics course I think would be right at home in an applied curriculum.. He studied at IIT kanpur, started off in electrical engineering and moved to physics. It was a long time ago, so it may have changed since then. Besides, his focus was purely theoretical at that point. . Also a recent electrical engineering to (engineering) physics transfer!  Agree that most engineering programs don't do enough physics, at least for my liking. Super excited to start my classes this semester :). Honestly right from the start of 1st year I didn't feel like I was super into engineering, even though at my university we don't really do any actual engineering until 3rd year from what I've heard. I was basically in engineering because I really liked physics in high school and that seemed like the logical progression (many people do this where I live). In my first semester of 2nd year I was doing badly in my engineering classes and acing multivariable calculus and when I talked to the physics advisor he said if I like that class I'd like physics. I was reluctant to switch because of what I thought was the amount of job opportunities in each field, but I looked into it more and it's actually pretty good for physics majors. But I know a few people that are in aerospace (just finished 3rd year) and they love it! So whatever works for you.. [removed]. Good on you for sticking with it! My high school teacher was the reason I decided to study physics, so your story is especially heartwarming.. Maybe she was trying to light a fire in you. It seems like it might’ve worked . Zangwill is a good substitute to Jackson at the graduate level. . Well then I’m glad we didn’t use it! My professor was a big fan and it was an advanced track undergrad course (I learned more in two semesters of that class than in the rest of my physics courses combined), but I can see it still would have been difficult.. No, but I had a prof who talked about wanting to use it.. I think my copy of Sakurai came from India... . What do you mean by 'physical intuition'?. 1s and 0s have consumed many of us.. "Hi Adopted, It's me, not your Dad" - OP's Virgin Dad, probably.. Honestly, I do not consider myself to be well versed in graduate level EM.  As I said, after Jackson I kinda picked up what I needed piecemeal (my PhD was in particle astrophysics, so more than anything I learned how to best use a computer...).  That said, I HAVE taught a bunch of undergraduate EM.


Griffiths is really good for EM.  You're right about his quantum text though.  You can see on the edge of mine right where I stopped giving a shit because the edges of half the pages are semi yellowed with use, and the other half is pristine white. That said, his EM text is much more rigerous than his QM.  I liked it.


I've also used Pollak and Stump, which is an excellent "in between" text.  Late undergrad maybe early grad use.  I DEFINITELY used it in grad EM.


I know landau and Lifshitz has an EM text, but I've never read it.  If it's anything like their mechanics book, it might be worth looking into.


The major difference between undergrad and grad EM is the exploration of scattering and waves / waveguides.  You do a lot of antenna work and perturbation theory.  If you want a grasp on graduate EM without jackson, it might be worth grabbing a book specifically ok waves and wave guides and antennae.  Electron scattering and perturbation theory you can pick up from particle physics (that's what I did).

. Not OP but Zangwill’s Modern Electrodynamics is a pretty good compromise between Griffiths and Jackson. It’s more rigorous than Griffiths but not convoluted like Jackson. Griffiths might not be as rigorous but he takes good care to point out conceptual land mines so I’d recommend at least reading through it.. IMO the first half of Griffiths (electrostatics/magnetostatics) is awesome.... but for electrodynamics look elsewhere.. Which university? Name please!. I'm with you on that, can't wait! Hopefully you have a great time. And I agree, I didn't like the lack of depth in both math and physics that the engineering program went into! . [deleted]. Think about driving a car - you probably have a usually correct expectation about how your driving will affect the objects in the car - e.g. if you slam the brakes you’d expect a passenger to be thrown against their seat belt. You have physical intuition about driving/riding in a car.  This is different then being able to write down and work with the models that describe that situation (classical mechanics). Physicists try to develop both skills. . I'd say Griffiths quantum is good until where he covers the WKB approximation. . As advanced as I may like to think of myself, at the end of the day I am still an undergraduate, so this is all good information! Also, good to hear as far as Griffiths goes! I'll certainly look into Pollak and Stump.   


As far as LL goes, the chair of my department says that their mechanics book is a pedagogical nightmare (very confusing considering the effusive praise it receives here) and is opting to use the Thornton Marion "Classical Dynamics of Particles and Systems" for my classical mechanics course this semester. I'm choosing to remain skeptical, personally. That said I haven't heard anything about their EM book specifically.  


Getting a grasp of graduate EM is hopefully in the near future for me, but I'll keep worrying about that for once I have a solid grasp of the foundation!. Thanks for your input! I'll look into that one.. [removed]. Cheers!. Really good example. I might steal it in the future and attribute to the internet /u/djw009 . Bingo. L&L's Mechanics is not a textbook but an overview. It presents mechanics as a part of theoretical physics and, as such, separated, on the one side, from "general physics" and, on the other side, from mathematics. It's a good overview but, frankly, I don't understand the enthusiasm. I'm not sure if it's the best overview and it's definitely not unique. I knew a lot of people who studied mechanics using L&L's book and I've seen no benefits comparing to people who studied using other books and then briefly went over L&L. 

The classical theory of fields, however, is something different. It presents electrodynamics from a dynamical perspective (it suffices to say that the Maxwell equations are derived) and this is quite deep. This book is unique but should also be read after solid knowledge of electrodynamics is already obtained.. [deleted]. Feel free! . My dad can confirm, he struggled at math and physics at first while he was studying engineering at IIT and he says he was amazed that they approved his request to switch into the physics department. It's definitely not like the US  My great fear as a physics graduate. nan. The setup for this prank has been in the works for about a century. They got him good.. Well they practically did the same thing in undergrad when they first teach modern physics after semesters of learning classical... I thought this was going to be a joke about how anything short of a PhD is the physics equivalent of dropping out of 8th grade.. "'Round earth', seriously? Look around, it's flat dude!". Yeah, well, how else are you going to explain the need to rotate a USB connector 720 degrees before it will go in? . I remember my HS physics teacher telling us that half of what he is teaching us is wrong our first year. Second year, he told us he would now correct some of the wrong things. We would have to major in physics to learn the rest.

Edit: I didn't think I would need to do this for a funny anecdote, but allow me to clarify my position. **I do not think teaching classical physics is bad. It is essential for developing in students a working knowledge of natural laws.** Having said that, I maintain that a significant amount of those older models are severely flawed and that much of what is taught is oversimplified to the point of being impractical for engineering and scientific research - that's why we have university. I do not understand why people believe these are mutually exclusive ideas.. I have a Masters in Social Work. This was actually a recurring nightmare I had all through grad school, that my degree didn’t exist and that no one actually gave degrees for wanting to help poor people.. [deleted]. Youd get a real kick out of the cosmic joke. Hope you see it one day!. Don't worry after a PhD I've come to realize we don't know anything.. It’s like all of college LOL. Jokes on him, my graduate degree is in a superposition anyway.. They missed the actual joke of getting a masters in physics.... \*ahem...* "And no refunds.". The late comedian Richard Jeni said he studied Political Science.  When he asked what he could do with that degree they told him, "Teach political science."  He said college was like Amway.. Wouldn't a truly consistent GUT or Theory of Everything do just that, at least to some degree? Warning: armchair physics enthusiast with no real credentials here, sorry if annoyingly stupid question.. Just a prank bro!. Nah, the real joke is when you try to get a job with just a physics degree.... No.... I'm also a physics grad. Just an undergrad degree. But, at 36, it's the most valuable accomplishment of my life so far. You now (or will soon) understand more about the world, how things work, and why things happen than 99.99% of society. It's not just the learning, but the discipline it takes to learn, and the intellectual ability to understand anything that will make you surprisingly successful. Keep it up!. I have a theoretical degree in physics . The Disillusionment of Dale Gribble 

it's why he wears sunglasses. to hide his sad eyes.. This is a reality for sociology degrees . Ha! Immediately sent to my two medical physicists. (I’m a radiation oncologist). What I've never understood is why does time dilation happen? Doesn't it just look like it happens? If you are on a rocket blasting away at .5c, wouldn't you, looking back at earth, see a world that has slowed by half assuming a classical approach to relativity. And then returning wouldn't you see it speed into the future.

How does relativity change your perspective in this scenario. The earth apparently ticks away into the future faster yet you would see it age at the same speed you do if you watched it since in any reference frame the speed of light is constant.

Can someone explain this and where I'm wrong?. 5 years for a masters?. no wait, no wait...   pfffkkk...  wait...  SHHH DUDE,... shut the...  okay...  pffk...

DARK ENERGY... 

AHAHHHAHHAAAAHHHAHAHAAAA. We all have been played.. This is almost exactly like Scientology level OT III except they're not joking.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenu. That actually made me laugh out loud. Thanks.. One of my physics' professors would always say "It is not magic, I promise. It's real physics." . after taking it up, it just fucks u up in the end. true fucking story.. Poor guy not much use in this world. Reminds me of https://xkcd.com/298/. I've been having a tough week, but this (and a root beer float) have been the only things to get me to smile. Thanks OP, and artist.. I secretly hope this is true, I mean on the surface that stuff does sound completely absurd.. What master's degree takes five years to complete? I'm seriously asking. . The truman show. did reddit hugged the site to death?. Wouldn't your greatest fear be not getting into a Ph.D program?. And the dream of every Flat Earther and other Geocentrists. They'd just love to see all of modern physics dumped to thr wayside.. /u/physicsman123. [deleted]. Literally same. He looks exactly like my QFT professor from my Master's. I always knew he was making that shit up. Honestly at the time it all seemed like such tortured reasoning, I was constantly thinking "yeah ok, but there's no way that's actually *right*, right?". Lol. That would be the worst, but honestly I’d probably laugh a little. I met the author, Terry Pratchett at a book signing once and told him that I enjoyed some of the jokes about science he made in his books. He said "That's why I love writing about modern physics, you can just make it up.". I ...I don’t get it . Something similar happened to a guy living in my dorm hall. He was studying nanotechnology. Just as he was about to get his degree the entire branch of nanotech that he was studying was deemed obsolete. . Anyone can do the double slit experiments - doesn’t that prove the wave-particle duality?. Quantum *physics* is a nice touch. That's why physics curricula should have much more emphasis on experiment. And I don't mean the crap lab classes they have now where students are locked in a room by themselves to follow a step-by-step procedure and understand none of what they're doing (and the lab is just a side note to the lecture anyway), but rather classes where the students are actually *taught* how experimental science works.. [removed]. There’s like 4 people that get this joke not me included. [removed]. r/comedycemetery. [removed]. [removed]. Wait…I thought particles could be waves.. I can see why Boomhauer became a Texas Ranger by the end.. Them: You need a degree in theoretical physics. 
Hero: Theoretically, I have a degree in physics. Them: You’re hired.. LMFAO this is so spot on. And don’t get me started on relativity! Haaaa the idea time is relevant to location and clocks tick slower the further from Earth you are. “BuT iT wAs PrOvEn tHroUgH eXPeRiMeNtAtiOn” 
Okay. Uncertainty? Or just outright manipulation.. There's no such thing as a particle. There are only wave interference densities that we call particles when they become dense enough to be measured and defined by us. And of course, Einstein is correct. The theory of relativity is a fundamental truth of this universe just like pi. We just haven't defined m yet. But I don't want to do that math. It's going to be wrought with heinous permutations/combinations of wave interferences integrated over some space through time. No. Thank. You.. As I stood before the doctoral thesis committee to defend my dissertation, I summarized my discussion of Heisenberg with, “Either you will confer the degree or you won’t.”  I have yet to open their response as I am not willing to face my greatest fear.. “A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit". I’m a math major but I’m taking modern physics this coming semester. How do you mean exactly? Just that everything isn’t nice and neat in the real world?. Perhaps classical mechanics doesn't describe the world precisely, but it's still very useful to know about.. Yeah but then you take Stat Mech and everything is wonderful.. It's probably cause I grew up reading a lot of sci-fi but my mind was not blown away by what I learned when I first took modern physics. The idea of particles behaving as waves or time dilating at high speeds didn't seem all that strange to me as I'd grown up believing that they were both possible and true. It also helped that every physics class I took along the way stressed that what we were learning was not always true and only described the everyday. . Does the modern of modern physics refer to the Modern era (17th/18th century/enlightenment) or contemporary?. Middle school too... they teach gravity the Newtonian way and not the Einstein way. Making it seem like a magic force and not the actual bending of space time.. What the fucks a Gravitational Force? Oh It's just a prank bro lol . [deleted]. Is it actually?. Okay everyone who is going to start studying university level physics (or maths) and is asking questions about above statement:

If you plan on working directly within the field of physics (maths). I.E if you want to research how gravitational waves could be useful, than you absolutely need a PhD that is relevant to gravitational waves. However, if you are not planing on doing anything like that, than even masters is a bit overkill. Skills you get from studying physics/math is what's important to employer, and to you too. And while you will learn a lot more of those skills in masters, it is not necessary. 

Now calm your tits people, bachelors in physics will always be infinitely more impressive than PhD in gender studies (or biology, those filthy people) . Isn’t it?. I thought it was going to be something about uncertainty. I want to be an astrophysicist. Now I don't know what to do since I know I'll be have thousands of dollars of not hundreds of thousands by the time I get a PhD. :(. The big bang is the one that gets me.

"Everything used to be nothing then it exploded for no reason and even though it was a single point there was nothing outside of it, it was everything even then because it was the whole universe."

Oh fuck you no way.. I hope I'm getting upvoted because people recognize the sarcasm without the /s.. Round Earth. Flat Universe. . "If the earth is flat then why do we have arches on our feet?". Pretty sure this comic will be used by science deniers.. Google the plate trick.. [removed]. Look at the USB. Look at the port. You can literally see which way it goes in.. >We would have to **PhD** in physics to learn the rest.

FTFY. I hate this idea! Simple physics isn't wrong, it's just simple models. Friction, hahahaha...... Haha, that's hilarious!. Liked the portal gun they threw in there.. Is it more of a haha-funny or haha-deargodnowhydoesithavetobethisway?

Just curious.. [deleted]. To some degree, depending on how you look at it, yes. However, history suggests that as physics continues to be built on, old ideas will still remain relevant within the areas of their applicability, as classical physics does today.. Do what?. Any new Theory of Everything or whatever will still have to be consistent with all of the experimental data we have. In all of the parameter regimes we have tested, it will need to reproduce standard quantum mechanics.. \#GONEWRONG #GONESEXUAL #INTHEGHETTO. What, you didn't want to just be a high school teacher? /s. That's actually very far from the truth. Most people at my master's programme have jobs secured before they're even finished with their master. It's very programming based so you can do a lot of stuff.. For any prospective physics majors reading, this captures the worth of physics grads to potential employers pretty well! The ability to break down complex problems and concepts and to be able to teach yourself when necessary are very valuable, even outside of STEM. . Well I'm glad you said the how and not the why. I also have an undergraduate degree in physics that I have not yet built a career upon (I completed my education nearly a decade ago).  Despite this I regret nothing - I am grateful for the knowledge I ascertained and how much it has molded my world and spiritual views.  . Welcome aboard!. You're hired.. Looks more like boomhauer to me.

Maybe a mix of both of them?. "And then returning wouldn't you see it speed into the future." 

This is where you are mixed up, it doesn't matter what direction the reference frame is moving with regards to time dilation. The object in the moving frame  will appear to age slower. This isn't an observed visual trick but an actual phenomena, with plenty of examples. E.g. GPS satellites contain atomic clocks which do tick slower due to their small, but not negligible, Lorentz factor.  In this sense we are "aging" faster than these satellites, and their clocks would show an earlier time if you examined them in your reference frame (stationary, in a lab).. Time dilation isn't because the light takes longer to travel, it at least not directly because of that. Say you have another ship traveling at the same speed as the first, they can check their clocks agree by sending light pulses to each other. The one ship passes by a clock on Earth at noon, he sees the clock right there so there's no light delay at all. The next ship passes one second later as the clock reads 12:00:01, it sees it right there with no light delay. But the clock on the ship reads that 1.15 seconds have passed (at .5c it's not a huge difference but noticable), and his clock is still in sync with the other ship according to him. 

The thing is, the ship clocks are in sync according to them, but not according to the Earth. If there was an astronaut at the same speed as Earth out at the second ship at noon according to his Earth watch, he sees the clock on the ship already reads .29 seconds past noon. Which is why the ship clock can read 1.15 seconds as it passes Earth even though it ticks less than 1 second in the time between the astronaut checking it and it reaching Earth. 

Minute physics has a great YouTube series about special relativity if you want to see why the distances and times change in different reference frames. He has a table top model of spacetime that automatically moves things to the right place as you change the reference frame, and it's a great way to see what is changing and why the speed of light stays the same.. Yes? Where I'm from (Norway) 5 years is pretty standard for a masters. 3 for bachelor, 5 for masters. Some courses you start with a bachelor, then you can choose to enter a 2 year masters program after finishing your bachelors degree, others you have to sign up for a 5 year masters program from day one and there's no degree after 3.. European ones where its combined bachelors and masters. . Hmm, what do you mean?. [removed]. [removed]. Spawning fish that leave upstream   
for many seasons,   
yet come home to stay.. I think he means that everything you think you know is wrong. Learning physics is constantly being told that the thing that you just took forever to learn is wrong for x, y, and z reason and need this following correction.

The reason why is because we learn physics in basically the same order that we developed our understanding of the universe. First you learn about Newton, then you learn about electricity, then more advanced classical mechanics. 

But then, just like we found out in real life, classical mechanics and our understanding of electricity don't work in certain circumstances. This was a good thing, it allowed us to develop a more nuanced understanding of the universe and describe our understanding with the theories of quantum mechanics and general relativity.

Modern Physics is a course that teaches you in a really rapid manner all the ways physics was developed over the centuries. You'll go through a couple of centuries of how our understanding of the modern world developed, so what he was meaning to say was that you'll learn this new groundbreaking theory (of the time) and the next week you'll be learning how it doesn't apply all the time.. Classical physics breaks down when things are extremely large ,extremely small, and/or extremely fast. For instance, you are on a train that is going the speed of light. If you were to run 5 m/s towards the front of the train , classical physics dictates that you are infact moving faster than the speed of light. This is impossible therefore this is one of  the many fallacies with classical mechanics.. The most important thing to understand is, what you're studying isn't reality. **It's a model of reality.**

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map%E2%80%93territory_relation

Even the smartest people can fall for this, and it can trap you into thinking about the world in a very restricted way.. The first thing my professor said in the class was, "Everthing you have learned about physics so far is wrong, useful and practical in some instances, but dead wrong." . What that means is that physics has an internal hierarchy of characteristic energy, spatial, temporal and so forth scales. Transitions between these scales are not particularly well understood but there are strong reasons to believe that this is _not_ because of the absence of such transitions: for instance, classical physics should emerge from quantum, thermodynamics should emerge from dynamics and so on.

Saying that classical physics is wrong is simply irresponsible. Individual theories are too consistent to be dismissed.. It's that the impossible is true. Things can be in more than one place at one time, and things which do not cause thermodynamically irreversible changes in the universe cannot be said to have happened at all. It is completely counter-intuitive. . You know when you first learned that the world was round? Pretty close to that

Basically physics bends over backwards to make sure that in absolutely any imaginable situation, all observers will measure the speed of a beam of light as 3*10^8 m/s. It’s like when you catch a kid in a lie, but they try to explain their way out of it by coming up with this elaborate tail that is totally unbelievable but you just nod along bc it’s super adorable, except it’s all apparently true.

The ladder paradox is a pretty good example of some of the weird shit physics does to accommodate this speed of light shit:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ladder_paradox?wprov=sfti1. Newtonian physics in 1 dimensions, then 2, then angular, then suddnely particle wave duality and photoelectric effect.

Its like *Wait a second! How is the canon shooting electrons and which way is gravity?*. There is almost always a deeper truth. Given any explanation, if you ask the question 'why?' afterwords you will seek a deeper truth. Why do objects fall towards the Earth? Newton claimed that a force existed between bodies that pulled them closer together. Why? Einstein claimed that the universe had a shape, a higher dimensional geometry, where the curvature of that geometry creates motion in the particles, and the mass of the particles create the curvature. As they move through time, they accelerate in space. General relativity is a much more fundamental and deeper truth than Newtonian gravity, but it is also much more difficult. You must learn to walk before you can run.  

There are still so many questions unanswered in physics that we will likely find still deeper truths as to why and how things happen. It's like everything we learn is wrong, but each step gets us a little closer to the truth.. Prepare your anus. [removed]. [deleted]. It'll go something like this "HAHAHAHAHA INVERSE SQUARE LAW?? ADDITIVE VELOCITIES? WHO FALLS FOR THAT?!?!" . Just do biology instead. Biology is always exactly what it is, there's no need to unlearn anything except het loose language of first year teachers trying to teach cell structures and evolution to freshman for the first time.. and classical mechanics is the context in which calculus was developed. frankly neither really make a ton of intuitive sense without the other, and both are needed to go further.  . Nothing describes world precisely. There's no reason to single out particular theory in that regard.. I'd phrase it even more strongly. Approximations aren't just about simplifying the calculation to make it easier. It's about taking a bunch of equations and turning it into a high level abstracted understanding of the physics. You can always say y=f(x), where f is some really complicated function, but that doesn't give you any real insight. But if you can make the approximation that (to first order) y is *proportional* to x (when z is not too large), then that means you can actually grasp the main idea of what's going on, and then you can add on the higher level terms if you need to.

Classical mechanics really is the best way to understand and model almost everything. Even in astrophysics we only incorporate relativity & quantum mechanics when we absolutely have to. Cosmological simulations still use classical gravity for instance (although they need General Relativity for the Hubble expansion of the universe).. classical means pre relativity and pre quantum mechanics . [deleted]. [deleted]. Or bio teacher and tutor . Not even remotely true.

Most pharmaceutical companies won’t touch phds with a 10 foot pole because they have to pay them more.

Why pay a PhD to run assays when you can get some fresh-faced new grad who’s going to work long hours because he thinks it will get him noticed?. Where do I find these grunt labs? Sounds like fun. . Or you could just go into industry and make more money than your average postdoc working at the NIH.. PhD here.  I'm pretty sure freshmen have a better understanding of physics than I do, but my h-index is higher, and that's really all that matters.  . Undergrad degrees are now equivalent to a high school diploma  so they say . Not having a PhD limits how far you can go in a company in many science related jobs.. Yes and no. The guys you hear about at CERN or get published in science journals all have phds. But there are plenty of people with an MS who will build the equipment, run simulations, build NASA rovers, etc. . a solid probably . A lot of PhD programs subsidize your tuition if you TA or teach (or work on a lab or c RA).  Get good grades, do good research, have good references and you'll be fine.  Defer those undergrad loans until you graduate and have a job.. This is what I struggled with when I was around 20. I always dreamed of becoming a scientist and majored in Physics at a good university. But then as I got to the point where I needed to prepare for the PhD I realized there was a lot of BS around being a scientist, and if I got my PhD I would be making poverty wages until my mid-to-late 20's. It didn't help that I didn't find the advanced Physics as interesting as I thought.

I can't tell you what you should do, but after I graduated I moved back home and started working on a Master's degree in Computer Science at the not so good local university while looking for software jobs. About a year later I got an internship, and then 2 months later a full time job making about $70k a year. By the time I would have finished my PhD my net worth was already well over $100k. I think it was the right choice, although now I kind of want to go back and study Physics again (but just for fun this time).. It's worth noting that very little of what you wrote actually applies to modern Big Bang theory:

> Everything used to be nothing

We don't know that, and Big Bang theory doesn't address it. There are extensions of Big Bang theory such as eternal inflation, which predicts that our Big Bang was just one such event in a larger, eternal multiverse.

> then it exploded 

It wasn't an explosion, it was an expansion. The difference is that things didn't explode outward from a single central point, they expanded everywhere at once. This makes a difference to what we expect to observe. We don't observe evidence of an explosion.

> for no reason 

Big Bang theory doesn't address the initial reason, but one possible reason is that the universe has inherent uncertainty, which means certain kinds of things can happen at random. Other possibilities include prior events in a multiverse. Acausality - "no reason" is of course an option, but it's not postulated by Big Bang theory.

> and even though it was a single point

Singularities are generally considered to be unphysical, and this is no exception. If we extrapolate your own growth backwards in time, you would also have started from an infinitely dense point. But you didn't, and neither did the universe.

> there was nothing outside of it

Big Bang doesn't require this, and some extensions involve something outside, namely a multiverse.

> it was everything even then because it was the whole universe.

The second half of that is correct, but we don't know that it's "everything".. "Surprise, the catholics were right after all!". If you have interactions with people questioning or asking about the Big Bang you will quickly notice that "everything used to be nothing" is _only_ be said by people wanting to make fun of the big bang as a theory and instead want to ramble about elitist science or their own, totally true theory.

I know of no scientist or science communicator who ever described the Big Bang as "nothing", instead they always stress that our current understanding is that of a singularity (sometimes they say infinitely dense point), that we can not meaningfully define a time before the big bang and that we still need a theory of quantum gravitation (or even grand unification) to make correct statements about this period.. [deleted]. It probably wouldn't get you as much if you read a little more about it. How you describe it is not at all how it was.. [deleted]. I really hope so too... Made me look like one fucking idiot at work lol. [The Plate Trick](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-6015175/Using-smaller-plates-trick-eating-Dieting-trick-does-NOT-work-scientists-say.html) for lazy people like me.. [removed]. > > We would have to PhD in physics to learn ~~the rest.~~ that nobody knows anything

> FTFY

FTFY. If the answer that results is wrong, then the model is wrong. Simplification makes it easier to digest, but it is still wrong. Nobody is advocating for teaching newbies advanced quantum mechanics, mechanics of materials, turbulence, etc.. That was actually part of the correct half haha. Both. Bit of black comedy i suppose, depends on your point of view.  Its not a secret, cats out of the bag, beans have been spilled. I could tell you the punchline, problem is you wont believe it until you see it. . We're currently unsure of the state of the joke. . I'm really disappointed that they didn't make a joke about the advisor never being there. Something along the lines of "Why do you think I always refused to meet you and all of our interactions were so brief? I couldn't keep a straight face for more than 5 minutes at a time!". \^Yep! Exactly. Newton's theories may not prove as useful/accurate for many of the situations where Einstein's theories are applicable, but they can still be used to accurately predict many phenomena. 

So if anything, older theories will be displaced rather than replaced (as they have been and currently are).. Make previous theory seem silly.

I don't think so really. Looking back at Newtonian physics might be an indication of what future science might think of Einstein, Fermi, Schrodinger, Dirac, Heisenberg, etc. Newton wasn't stupid, he just had less experimental data and none of the theoretical advancements since his time to build on. Many of his ideas were less correct than ideas that have since replaced them, sure, but his contributions led to further progress rather than delaying it. It introduced important ideas that are still valid (like the notion of a unified set of laws that explain both the heavens and the earth). And Newtonian physics is still a good approximation for many uses, and is in some ways simpler than the physics that has since replaced it.

I think there's some possibility that a unified theory will end up being more elegant and in that sense less complicated than current theory, but the strange phenomena they explain are real and still stretch the limits of understanding, no matter how succinct the final list of underlying laws may be.. You say that...

Currently working on my graduate degree in electrical engineering...because that was about my only option before.. I don't think I even said the how. . Their son. Most people consider the two years spent studying your Masters "Getting your Masters" in the U.S. Which is why there's confusion. . Yes, I'm Norwegian as well so this is what it's referring to. 3 years for bacheclor and 2 y for masters if anyone is curious. Ah, thank you!. In Greece I just did 4 years bacheor and 2 years on masters. By the way that is the exact time it is required for the program. It's quantum mechanics, not quantum physics. Pedantic perhaps, but it's how the term is used.. [removed]. Or you could just 3-tick barbarian fish them and drop them on the ground for maximum effeciancyscape.. [removed]. Well a very specific subset of situations are well approximated by some simplifications that don't describe the greater reality.. Science is a LIAR! [^(sometimes)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zgk8UdV7GQ0). There is a song for that: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bYlxqWRe3M. Reminds me of when I was introduced to organic chemistry. "You know that periodic table that was life? Ya it ain't shit.". Black is white, up is down, short is long. And everything you used to think was so important doesn't really matter any more....

edit:

I'm sorry, I'm just having a Bad Hair Day.. >everything you think you know is wrong

I learned that in regular physics.. So the earth really is flat? And gravity was designed by the liberals so that children could get autism? . Well it's right for all but the most extreme scales.

Newtonian gravity is good enough for interplanetary travel. Newtonian physics is good enough for a lot of molecular simulations. It's pretty good. . The universe is not only queerer than you imagine but queerer than you *can* imagine.. Respectfully, this is a very wrong way to put it.   

It's right in the sense that everything *we* know, and we *will* know, for the forseeable future, is not quite correct, only a distorted approximation, maybe. One that works better and better (the weirder it gets).

To reuse Asimovs words: ["When people thought the earth was flat, they were wrong. When people thought the earth was spherical, they were wrong. But if you think that thinking the earth is spherical is just as wrong as thinking the earth is flat, then your view is wronger than both of them put together."](https://chem.tufts.edu/answersinscience/relativityofwrong.htm) 

 . > First you learn about Newton,

That famous Caveman, Newton!. [removed]. [removed]. I thought relativity was part of classical physics? It was at least part of the lowest-level undergraduate physics class at my university. 

And it was certainly hard for me to understand but even before I got to that point, I understood that some “weirdness” existed to account for things not moving faster than the speed of light, explaining the many versions of the train/headlights paradox.

Quantum physics is an area that I still don’t understand and consider the real “mindfuck”, in the sense that somebody in my position neither understands how it works or could *begin* to understand (intuitively) why those rules have to change, given their basic level of knowledge. . I thought it was only impossible for someone else to see you move faster than the train.  If you were on the train then wouldn't it look perfectly still to you? . [deleted]. On the other hand, a working model means that there's definitely some part of reality that works that way, which is why the model is a useful way to think about it. And why you actually are studying reality, if only a limited aspect of it.. Arguably what your professor told you was also wrong, which of course is consistent with his message.

Older models of physics, like Newtonian physics, are not "wrong", which is why they're still taught today. However, they are essentially approximate models that are only accurate at relatively low speeds and energy scales. 

That's true of most theories, though - they apply at certain scales but break down at others. For example, general relativity is thought to break down as a physical theory when it predicts singularities, and a more accurate theory in those cases is thought to involve quantum mechanics.. That's the way way I've always thought about it too. There are thresholds of the behavior of energy and matter, and each concept of physics is our attempt of describing that behavior. But as we get to the points between thresholds for whatever reason, lack of understanding, outside our brain's understanding, whatever, we struggle to explain the behavior that occurs between those points.. [deleted]. >  the Wikipedia article on quantum mechanics or special relativity as a teen

When I was growing up all we had was "A Brief History of Time" and we liked it that way. As opposed to?. There are many degrees of precision. More precise theories are of interest to people curious about what nature is really doing.

Theories which can give useful, if less precise, results with relatively light computation, such as Newtonian mechanics, are of interest to people that want to make things like cars, boats, airplanes, spacecrafts, buildings, and many other things.. It's not that dramatic. You absolutely can get by without a PhD, but itll be harder in industry and pretty much impossible long term in academia. You can take a bio BS and get a tech position in a lab pretty easily. But if you want to be leading your own research or work high up the ladder you'll need a PhD.  I got a BS in general bio/pre-med but did a fair bit of research (personally didn't like it hence the pre-med). But I've got a few friends who are working in labs now with just a BS but there is a cieling to how high most people can get (I'm sure some make it work).  I've got friends who were working at NIH and labs around the country a year or two out.  You don't have to go right into a master's or something fresh out of college but most people will need it eventually.  I don't know anyone myself that far up in industry so maybe it's different. . No lol. Go into industry and you'll make more money than PhDs 4 years into their second postdoc as they pray to find something to do with their lives within the next year.

Edit: and you'll make that kind of money with a Bachelor's and 2 years experience. After 5 years experience, and maybe a Master's that your company will PAY for, you will make more than most academic PhDs ever will.. If you choose engineering, be prepared to face **alot** of math. u/treebear189 said it better, but I will say timing is everything, graduate into a booming economy and you are much better off than graduating into a recession where you're going to have to work a lot harder to make up for your lower starting point.  Talk to the faculty and see what the normal career options are, and if they've been around for 20+ years, ask what they were in 2002 and 2010 when getting a job fresh of out school was not easy.

now for the wear sunscreen part, don't over due you course load, treat labs like their own class, and study, study, study.  . My mom graduated with honors in microbiology. She makes less than me doing data entry. I dropped out of college and work IT from home. Go into engineering. . Depends on the type of biology.  Wildlife biology, the people with master's degrees get to do all the fun stuff, but if you have a PhD you'll mostly be behind a desk. Also most of the people I know who did bio wanted to go on to medicine. I’ve met a few who just doing bio didn’t turn out so well. It all depends on what you want to do. On paper, of course, Engineering will be the "better" degree but no one besides you can decide if it is what you want to do. Don't feel guilty trying to be successful on your own terms.. You can do well in industry, but you will reach a point where you are unpromotable because if your degree.. This isn’t even close to true. As someone with a PhD who works for a pharmaceutical company, I can tell you we won’t hire anyone with less than a PhDs for Scientist level and above if your going to be on the R&D side. BS/MS starts at RA and works up to SRA. There is little to no movement from SRA to scientist. This is pretty much the model that is followed at every company I’ve seen.. Hi, can you please explain me what a h-index is?. Want to include me on some papers? H-index is low. Need a friend. . [removed]. I’d say a definitely maybe.. Thank you so much for a reply. I still have 1 more year in high school so I guess I still have a bit of time to decide what my game plan is going to be before entering a college/university. I really hope to at least get a job in a field of physics, I don't know what else I would do or even study. I will definitely need to do some research, I really appreciate the response :). I know I want to work in a field of physics or maybe astronomy but as far as I know both require PhDs. The time it takes to get one though is honestly discouraging me. I'm glad everything turned out ok for you though, thank you for responding :). Pope: "Psych! L Ron Hubbard was actually right. You seriously thought we worshipped a giant t?". The Catholics are kinda right already, as the Big Bang theory was originally put forward by a [Belgian Priest](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georges_Lema%C3%AEtre).. One of my friends is a physics dude and he explained this to me, and it makes even less sense intuitively when you hear the actual science behind it.

When religious people say stuff like "oh well, what happened before the big bang" the answer is "time started at the big bang" which is a deeply unsatisfying and complicated answer lol. . Light travels at a finite speed, so it takes time for the light of that object to reach you. For instance, the sun is 8 lightminutes away. Thus you are always seeing the sun as it was 8 minutes ago.

(Also don't look directly at the sun :) ). That's largely an impact of light having a maximum speed. Sound has a speed that you can notice in real life easily enough, light is just much faster. 

When you see a jet do a supersonic flyby you can see the jet but hear it as though the sound is lagging behind it. That is because you are "hearing it in the past", you are hearing the sound that the jet made a few seconds ago. 

The idea of a distant observer seeing the light that the earth emitted jn the past is the same concept, the light has to get there. . I'm no expert on this, but I'm pretty sure it's because your eyes see because of light reflecting off of stuff

And light travels fast, like 300 million meters per second, but it does take an amount of time to get where it's going

So if you were like 300 million meters away from Earth, the light bouncing off of Earth into your eyes would take a second to get to you, so you would see the Earth one second into the past

That's a pretty gross simplification but that's how I understand it
. Light takes time to reach places. If you look at something that's 5 light years away, the light that's currently hitting your eyes is 5 years old. Thus, you're looking at the past, not the present. I hope that makes sense.. It's not so complex as you're thinking lol, it's just that the light particles that bounced off Earth in caveman times or whatever hit their eyes now. It just took the light that long to travel to them from Earth. No weird quantum physics or anything. They're just really far away in this hypothetical scenario.. Practically as well, it's unlikely to matter. If you were to travel 5 light years from Earth, it would take you substantially longer than 5 years (by all modern and feasible means, there's no way to even remotely approach the speed of light). Ignoring the other practical limitations (sustaining life, fuel, etc.), by the time you got there and looked back at Earth, you would still be looking back 5 years from your current calculated time, which would be well after you left. So you wouldn't be looking at a past which you recognize as a past. 

For us looking out in to space, I think it does make some practical sense that we are seeing past images of light. Light takes time to travel, it takes time to deliver it's message, so to speak. But that message doesn't really change in transit, so it's like getting a letter from over seas in the 18th century. That letter may tell you what is happening that day (when it was sent), but it took several weeks to get to you, so it's a message from the past. Same with light, we can see a star's dying breaths of a supernova, but if that is 1,000 lightyears away, that light has been traveling for 1,000 years carrying the same message that we are just now receiving. For us, that's what we see in the present, but that event occurred a thousand years ago for that star, so we are seeing an image of the past.

Note: I hope that makes sense and is roughly accurate for a simple explanation. I have no formal physics background, but I love reading about this stuff. Anyone, feel free to clarify or correct.. That ones not bullshit, and they’ve proven it. The whole Big Bang thing is a little harder to prove, sure, but light takes time to travel. . Dude... do you have any justification of your calling bullshit besides your gut? The whole idea of science is going beyond what just "seems right" and being rigorous with what we can consider to be true.. Given that you acknowledge your limitations, how do you justify your disbelief? Even when you’re looking at your nose, you’re seeing how it was a fraction of a nanosecond ago, not how it is at the moment you’re seeing it.. r/gatekeeping

.... /s. That /s is crucial to saving karma though.... [Poe's law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poe%27s_law) would like to have a word with you.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Wrong in what limit? Unless you go to a terrible school, nobody is teaching physics that is wrong in reasonable limits. Examples of reasonable limits: earth is a perfect sphere, zero air resistance, classical limit of point particle interactions. All have their place and time.. Every single thing you named is “wrong” by your postulate.. Even the standard model is "wrong" in that it breaks down at high enough energies
. I'm afraid i already have and I'm in denial.

I also hope I'm wrong, but when it happened i was never so sure of anything in my life as i was of that. If i was right, this conversation would be a bit ridiculous, but then again not more than anything else, i suppose.. [deleted]. Not as useful? I'd say Newton is used far more than Einstein. . The program I went to was a 5 year masters program, they offered no bachelors degree, so for me it really was a 5 year masters whichever way you loon at it :). Yeah, it’s typically 4 for Bachelors, 2 more for a Masters, and a separate 4-6 years for Ph.D. But there are some “5-year” MS programs where you basically get a BS and take a few graduate courses and write a thesis. I started in one of those but realized I’d get to do a better research project if I did the full 2 years of a Masters on top of my BS. . Oh, in Norwegian we use both of those terms.. [removed]. /r/unexpectedrunescape . . . ? Is that a video game reference or something?. you sir win reddit today. [removed]. So basically the big picture is the classical and modern is the more specifics?. I'm a simple man. I see an always sunny reference and I upvote immediately . This was on the first CD i ever purchased myself at a Billboards in Cleveland, Ohio. I remember hiding it in my night stand and it got scratched up. I was only able to listen to this song and like 3 others in complete without skipping. So basically, i listened to this song a shit ton.. I was just about to post that, it was worded too well. :). Explain?. [removed]. A massive object cannot travel at the speed of light and there's no absolute velocity. . To people on the train, nothing is weird as you approach the speed of light. For someone watching the train go by, everyone on the train is moving very very slowly. . Since nobody answered you, yes that's exactly what happens. It's not about "safe to move", it's just that time is slowed so much that to move your arm even a little might mean millennia pass to an outside observer. 

And to all the nitpickers that would rather pick nits, you can't answer the question about moving exactly C, but you can get so arbitrarily close it makes no difference. You add nothing to any understanding by snarkily responding like a computer that can't speak natural language.. The train can't hit the speed of light. Iirc only massless things travel at the speed of light.. no. there is no absolute motion so you can only ever give velocities relative to some observer. finally a massive object cannot travel at the speed of light relative to that observer.

both the object and the observer will however measure the speed of a photon to be the same. this isn't possible on galilean relativity so that we need to adjust to a type of relativity that respects this. ie we need to use lorentz transforms. these have the property that there is some mixing between the time and space components and as a consequence two people don't agree how much time passes between two events and whether two events happen simultaneously. for more info work through the math which isn't complicated. . >  I thought relativity was part of classical physics?

Einsteinian relativity - special and general - is not part of classical physics. Classical physics refers to Newtonian physics and other physics before Einsteinian relativity and quantum mechanics.

Galilean relativity is part of classical physics, but that just deals with e.g. how if a car passes you at 105 km/h while you're traveling at 100 km/h, its speed relative to you is 5 km/h. It doesn't take the speed of light into account, and there's no dilation of time or distances.

Special relativity is often taught quite early now, but that doesn't make it classical.




. This is such a common thought that I must be the weird one, but I never really understood this point of view. Classical physics is weird too. Nothing in my life doesn't stop if I give it a push, yet objects don't stop unless acted by an outside force. It's not at all obvious that you can't configure magnets in such a way that they make a fan spin indefinitely, yet the second law of thermodynamics is true and you can't. More or less everything with light doesn't make any intuitive sense, yet it happens.. > in the sense that somebody in my position neither understands how it works or could begin  
>  
> to understand (intuitively) why those rules have to change

No reason why we should intuitively understand phenomena at scales outside everyday experience.  "Classical" physics describes the everyday world just fine, and we test it every day by just living in it.  That's where the intuition comes in.  But when the scale gets outside everyday experience, we have no way of testing it without major expense and effort.  For example, the  Michelson–Morley measurement of light speeds was a unique effort for its time. We can't develop any intuitions about such things until we have the data; and they aren't verified in our everyday experience.  So what to do?  ... just shut up and calculate, I believe the advice is.

# . One of the difficulties is that it's not that obvious that there are thresholds: there is no theory of physical theories. For example, we know for a fact that there is a transition from quantum to classical behavior, we also know for a fact that there are macroscopic phenomena that are inconsistent with classical concepts. Just from these two facts, can we outline the variety of possible underlying theories? It's not even clear how to approach such problem. . Why not to use question marks when asking questions?

I don't know, I've used whatever word came to me. It's totally legit.. Most 200 level undergrad physics classes don’t teach physics using calculus (in my limited experience). They teach students to
Memorize formulas derived by calculus and solve using algebra & trig. 

I was at university of oregon in the early aughts. They had two different 200 level physics series 201,202,203 - which is as I described does not teach how to solve physics problems using calculus, and there was a 211, 212, 213 series which was designed to, at least for 211 & 212, with calculus as a co-requisite. 

I had taken high school physics and a 201 series at community college. It wasn’t until I had taken calculus and calc based physics together that it clicked that there was a higher level order structure, and you didn’t need to memorize and particular formulas I’d you could calculate the derivates and  integrals. . One of the problem I'm constantly having on presumably science oriented boards is that these boards defy science. I've made a statement "nothing describes world precisely" as a comment to the statement "classical mechanics doesn't describe the world precisely, but ...". I've made a positive statement that can be _proven_ wrong by providing an example of precise description. An attempt to give such example, however, quickly reveals that there is nothing to provide.

> More precise theories are of interest to people curious about what nature is really doing.

Please, by all means give me an example of curious people explaining the dependence of elasticity of a crumpled piece of paper using "more precise theories". I'm more than aware that there are people that honestly think that answering such questions does not answer "what nature is really doing" and that we could either reveal "what nature is really doing" or "make things like cars". I'm glad that there are ultimate judges holding the precise knowledge of what nature is and what nature is not.. Getting a PhD in anything is probably a bad idea if you're interested in making money. Getting the PhD should be about having a high-level of interest in your field and a desire to do original research.

I think the idea a PhD will be lucrative stems from the idea that people have ingrained that "more degrees = more income", even though there are plenty of examples of people in business that show that this isn't the case.

Note: Yes, a PhD holder will generally make more than the average BS / MS holder in their lifetimes, but that is likely a symptom of PhD holders being, **on average**, more conscientious and intelligent than BS / MS holders.. This is probably a dumb question, but what exactly does “go into industry” mean? I wanted to do research, specifically in either stem cells or CRISPR one day, so I dunno if I have any real shot at that. . Average academic PhD is around 75k. You will not make that with a BS + 5 years in biology.. People that get PhDs don't do it for the money . We're talking about biology here. It's a rough world out there for biologists. It doesn't take many people to run a gaggle of bacteria colonies.

Micro has a relatively good job market, but it's also very much so the opposite of what you're saying. It's a field where you can't swing your arm without hitting a phd. If you have aspirations higher than running gels and cultures, you need a phd.

Though honestly, this "phds aren't employable" meme is just incorrect in general. It's based off of survey data obtained from phd candidates that haven't defended their dissertation yet. The actual unemployment rate of phds is stupidly low. Yes, you're not going to be an academic, but who cares? Why would you want to be anyway? It sucks compared to industry.. [deleted]. > be prepared to face alot of math

It's not that much, just calculus through multivariate and vector calculus and linear algebra and differential equations.. Petroleum engineering, Computer Engineering, and Electrical Engineering are probably the most lucrative right now.

But you shouldn't just go to school because you wanna get rich, you should go their to learn something that you enjoy, because you are good at it or because its your passion. University is far from a good business decision for a lot of people.. It is the number of papers you have had with that many citations. For example, if you published 5 papers, each which have been referenced 5 times, you have an h index of 5.. Number of papers h with at least h citations.. I am, thanks. . I love it when people stupidly post this in response to someone being humble. Their comment is in fact a good example of Impostor Syndrome. Also, you know this is /r/Physics right? It's really common for someone to have a PhD in physics around here. I do. So I also know how much physics I've forgotten, and what I never truly understood, while earning it.. Literally the opposite lol. . /r/lostredditors 
. I'd say a strong perhaps. Psych*. **Georges Lemaître**

Georges Henri Joseph Édouard Lemaître, RAS Associate (French: [ʒɔʁʒᵊ ləmɛ:tʁᵊ] ( listen); 17 July 1894 – 20 June 1966) was a Belgian Catholic priest, astronomer and professor of physics at the Catholic University of Leuven. He proposed on theoretical grounds that the universe is expanding, which was observationally confirmed soon afterwards by Edwin Hubble. He was the first to derive what is now known as Hubble's law and made the first estimation of what is now called the Hubble constant, which he published in 1927, two years before Hubble's article.

Lemaître also proposed what became known as the "Big Bang theory" of the origin of the universe, which he called his "hypothesis of the primeval atom" or the "Cosmic Egg".

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. "what happened before the big bang" is an inaccurately phrased "what was before the first thing we can assume happened?", to which the only logical answer is "we don't know, that's what *the first thing we can assume happened* means". Shortening the explanation of the big bang is this: We can see that the universe is expanding, so we know that it had to expand from somewhere, which is how we know that there was a big bang (since that "somewhere" is one point). It's not a matter of satisfying or not, it's a matter of science makes no claims without supporting data, and we have no measurement of anything *ever* that runs in contrast to the big bang theory (and therefore necessitating a scale before the big bang or outside the known universe).. Also notable: those photons are likely hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of years old.. Ahh okay, thank you for explaining it like that! . I'd rather have negative karma without a /s than have positive karma with one.. Maybe... definitely didn’t do it with my keyboard and accidentally hit myself in the ear twice either. I did, but I'm on my own right now, so no-one knows how weird I looked.. like i read in a really good magazine (i think it was Quantum?), we might not know what time *is* but we can at least learn how it works

similarly, "magnetic monopoles might not exist, but that doesn't mean we can't study one!". Lol, well at least we know its not *ether*. Like I said, nobody is proposing we teach advanced stuff like Schrodinger's equation to people who are being introduced to physics. There is usually a level of math involved that makes it impossible to teach neophytes, assuming they even understand the concepts. Limiting the scope of the model, or even relying on old models, is useful. Heck, my professor spent time teaching "ether" experiments, which were indubitably wrong - the frustration we all felt when he told us the previous two days of class was all wrong was hilarious in hindsight, but they weren't useless because science advances via disproof.

Yes, everything has its place and time, but that does not make the old models and simplifications correct according to science's best understanding at the moment.

https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/why-it-s-okay-to-teach-wrong-ideas-in-physics/. Yeah, because science moves forward. Just ask Bohr. The difference is that the further science moves, the less likely its models will be wrong.

https://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/why-it-s-okay-to-teach-wrong-ideas-in-physics/. Yeah its all a bit ridiculous. Kookookachoo. No! If we interact with it, we have to define it. We can't let the sunk cost fallacy drive us to madness.. He does qualify that statement with the remainder of the sentence.. Ah, ya. Translations would change that.. [removed]. [removed]. It's been 3 years, but I hope you know you made someone laugh with this comment today. [removed]. [removed]. More like classical is a special case. It accurately models the dynamics of particles which are not too small and do not move too fast.. [removed]. They are all models. Models do not necessarily describe some "fundamental truth", but they can be good approximations.. Im another mathematician, but the overriding factor is experiment evidence.

Newton had falling apples.

Einstein had the experimental evidence of the constant speed of light.

Quantum mechanics is completely born of describing experimental evidence.

New data creates new mathematical models. Those models must account for more details. . [removed]. Classical is an extremely good approximation, but can not describe behavior at any scale. . [removed]. You got it backwards bud. Classical is on the scale that can be easily observed by humans.  Modern is on really large or small scales like atoms or the universe.  That doesn't mean that classical doesn't hold up on large or small scales or that modern doesn't hold up on the human scale, although quantum mechanics does have a more significant effect on the small scale.  It just has to do with where each are the most observable.  To be more specific modern physics typically deals with extremely large, small, or fast forms of matter.. Its the vice versa. You can model everyday physics with modern too but you cant get past some certain boundries with classic physics like when things move at fractions of light speed, or when the get too small like atomic and sub-atomic particles. However, classic physics is practically as accurate as modern inside those bounderies. . It’s more like classical works well for a large portion of the “middle” cases, but if you get too far to either extreme, weird shit starts happening.


Tiny size, low mass, low energy?  Quantum stuff.  Giant, huge mass, high energy?  Relativity tends to work until you get to big enough of a scale that dark energy and dark matter become important, or until you form a black hole (and then things become tiny again and quantum mechanics becomes important).. Classical is an approximation that works very well for everyday situations but breaks down at specific extremes - the very small, the very fast and the very heavy. When working with those, you need quantum mechanics and the two flavours of relativity (one of which is really just a special case of the other).. Not exactly sure how it relates to the comment above his, but in orgo chem, almost all elements except H, C, N, and O are ignored. Rarely you'll get some F, Na, Mg, P, S, Cl, K, Ca, Fe, Br, and I. But most elements don't occur bonded to C enough in nature to be a concern for orgo chem. . [removed]. [removed]. Photons are not nearly massless, they are massless . two observers in relative motion will both see a photon moving at c. this is the principle at work here, from which time dilation and other effects are derived. I chose my words poorly for this, but the car is actually irrelevant. It's just more intuitive to people as compared to saying something like "a massless object that generates photons in one direction".

The concept is pretty much that in the frame of the object moving near the speed of light, the light from the "headlights" will move away at the speed of light, which makes it seem like to an outside observer the light would have to travel at twice the speed of light, but that's not what happens.. And if the people on the train looked outside they'd also see time moving slowly. It's all relative . I came as fast as I could.. You can't actually get to c is actually correct and it's not a snarky addition. It's a usefully correction that aids in learning. There is nothing wrong with saying "SR actually forbids you from going c, but as you approach it in a set reference frame you experience extreme time dialation. However from your point of view nothing is wrong, and everyone else in the set regret frame is super slowed down instead!". It’s not snarky, you just don’t understand what people are trying to tell you, which is why you still don’t get it. 

https://youtu.be/vVKFBaaL4uM

If you watch the video, you’ll see that the concept of not being able to go at the speed of light is central to understanding the entire thing, and there is a huge difference between going ever so slightly slower than the speed of light vs at the speed of light.  

And if the very question you’re asking were valid, then it shouldn’t matter if you replace “going the speed of light” with “almost going to speed of light”.  If your hypothetical doesn’t work anymore if you can’t go at the speed of light... well I guess the distinction does matter, and isn’t just snark.  

Also, stop blaming others for your own lack of understanding.  No one has to explain anything to you.  Show some fucking gratitude.. You are technically correct, the best kind of correct.

Nothing with mass can hit *c*, ever. . [removed]. You are actually correct despite the downvotes. . I guess it’s not “intuitive” in the sense that any of us can directly observe relativistic effects. But I learned that nothing could go faster than the speed of light in elementary school. Sure, I didn’t understand the implications or details of that fact until **much** later in my education/life. Still, I was aware at an early stage of science education that *something weird* had to go on to explain contradictions like: what happens when you’re already going the speed of light then use a rocket booster? 

Not true for things like quantum mechanics, which I managed to get through university without understanding on even a basic level. . I don't think this is entirely true, unless I'm misunderstanding you.

Quite often classical dynamics ends up being the result of like a truncated Taylor series expansion of a more sophisticated theory. Classical dynamics is always perfectly described by these further models under the correct conditions—and this is actually usually a criterion of validity for any new theory.

It's also usually very clear in most quantum systems in particular what energy scales are needed for quantum effects to be observable.. maybe in the us. in Europe you learn calculus in school and there is no non-calculus physics class in university. . I'm going start using the term "accurate" instead of precise. The standard model is an example of a model which is very accurate, it agrees with experimental data to many significant figures. 

I never said "there is a model which describes the world with perfect precision," I just said that some models are more precise (accurate, to use proper terminology) than others. And my point was that accurate things, like the standard model, come about by many people asking "what is going on here" and trying to explain phenomena at the most fundamental level possible.

My original point was that classical mechanics, while it doesn't have the incredible predictive power of (for example) the standard model, is extremely useful, and that saying undergraduate courses on classical mechanics are "wrong"  undermines the practicality of the material.. Have PhD, am on income benefits while I look for a job, can confirm broke. There are plenty of biotech companies out there that also do research for their own products that they sell. Academic labs use the products from these companies within their own research. The area where I particularly have worked in is companies that develop and manufacture FDA regulated "In Vitro Diagnostic medical devices." These "IVD medical devices" are the tests that doctors and medical labs use to diagnose diseases. You could also get into pharma... but I am sure suggesting scientist jobs in pharma on reddit will cause an outcry.

There are plenty of companies out there working with Stem Cells, and I am sure once the research gets a little further there will be a lot of companies working with CRISPR as well. Next Generation Gene Sequencing is starting to blow up quite a bit currently, and there is a lot of work being added in that industry.

If you go into R&D at a company like these, you will eventually hit a ceiling if you continue to work within the lab if you don't have a Phd. But I can tell you that many of the scientists in these labs did a few years working in industry before going back to school for their PhDs. When an industry company is trying to hire a PhD level candidate, they want someone who already has industry experience. However, this does not mean you cannot progress within the company at all, you may just have to shift eventually to a nonlab focused role if you want to continue to advance. (This is more late career advice. If you are a brilliant bench scientist, you will still progress to senior scientist levels even without a PhD)

When I was in college, I had an internship at the NIH in Bethesda. The vast majority of the Postdocs that I interacted with there advised against going straight for your PhD or even for a PhD at all. Many of them were already on their second postdoc, and were struggling to find jobs because all industry jobs require industry experience if you have a PhD, and Principal Investigator (PI) positions are very few and far between.

Some areas in the USA that have a lot of biotech jobs are in California and Maryland. The NIH and FDA are both headquartered in Maryland, so a lot of companies like to have major sites in that area. . Stem cells and CRISPR seem like they have a lot of future proofing, given all the stuff going on with them. I'd imagine research with those would be a good option.. I am replying to someone who was asking if it was true that if you don't get a PhD in the field of biology that you will only have minimum wage jobs for the rest of your life. . True tho. FUCK a bunch of legendre polynomials btw. Sons of bitches.. I'd also recommend that anyone afraid of math because of their experience as in school try it again as an adult. It's not nearly as scary as I remember. I’d suggest electrical engineering personally, based on the fact that computer engineering is a bit oversaturated and petrol is hopefully a dying industry. . > So I also know how much physics I've forgotten

Thank God for the internet.

"Oh yeah, this works like that doesn't it? Lemme check..."

"Ah.". Thanks, I thought I could trust autocorrect, but once again it proves I can't.. It's because they spend a very long time bouncing around in the sun before finally breaking out right?. Are they? I was under the impression that they were constantly absorbed into other atoms and a “new” photon was emitted until the final photon emitted had a direct path to earth (or whatever target). Is it actually the same photon that is bouncing around the sun for all that time?. But you have one right there. . You're misunderstanding my point. We shouldn't teach classical mechanics because quantum mechanics is too difficult, we should teach classical mechanics because it is a *very* good description of a large class of systems. 

Physics is a practical science: if you cannot see an effect with the instruments you have, it can safely be neglected, even if you know the effect exists from other, more advanced measurements. It does not make your simplified model wrong *within the stated limits*. Maybe to a mathematician, but we don't care about them.. models =/= reality

No matter how intricate the model. The “likeliness” of any given model being wrong by your definition is 100%. This is why people ITT take issue with what you’re saying. It is entirely unhelpful to put a label such as “wrong” on a model.

There’s a reason we still use classical physics when we know about relativity.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. More like not too small, not too big, don't move too slow, or too fast, aren't too light, or too heavy, and aren't weird funky stuff that we didn't even knew existed before about 100 years ago.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Fighting the good fight down with reification . Physicalosophy.. I don't understand your point, whats the difference between Michelson-Moreley vs Ultraviolet Catastrophe or double slit experiment in the context of your comment? (Einstein vs Quantum). [removed]. [removed]. Is there anything human scale that you can apply quantum physics to?. Ok sure, but it's needlessly complicated and you won't find an analytical solutions to most problems anyways so you'll be working with (very good) approximations.

I mean, QM can't even get an analytical solution to the helium atom. Why would you try to model a car like that if your classical shit works just fine.. [removed]. Ok...that makes a sense... it doesn't if the car is traveling at the speed of light.. Holy shit you finally put the pieces together in a way that makes sense to me. Been trying to fully wrap my head around this for a while. Yep. They're just hanging out after all. It's the rest of the world that's flying by at nearly the speed of light.. true. It is snarky and I do understand it, as I clearly demonstrated in my comment.

When someone asks a question, but there's some nuance to why the question isn't perfectly realistic, brushing it aside with a simple "that's impossible" does nothing helpful to improve understanding or get into any of the interesting details.

Any of the other commenters could have elaborated, they could have made their response interesting because interesting things really happen when moving really fast. Things like time dilation, length contraction, etc. But instead of any of that, people responded like a computer saying "DOES NOT COMPUTE" in some 60's cartoon. Any interesting response could have done what I did, talk about some of the interesting effects, with the added caveat that there are interesting reasons your speed can never actually reach C.

And for that matter, even if they already *knew* moving at C is impossible, it's still a perfectly useful shorthand to say "moving at the speed of light" to mean arbitrarily close. It doesn't detract from any understanding except in the rare case of somebody who has literally never heard that before.

So yeah, don't come in here with this obtuse nonsense where you pretend you don't understand the questions being asked and feel smug about essentially ignoring a comment just because you're too lazy to add anything useful.. I wouldn't even mark it as technically correct. That fact is very important for understanding why throwing a baseball on a train moving the speed of light doesn't make the ball go faster than the speed of light. The ball gets arbitrarily closer to the speed of light, but never gets there.. /u/cyberplatypus does make an important point that because it can't happen, there's no real way to entertain it as a hypothetical, a little like asking what if 1=2 I guess; I don't know because it isn't something which can happen. (Okay, it's not quite that severe but you get the gist.) Obviously I don't blame you for being curious but I'm not sure how anyone could give you a proper answer.

That said, we can still look at the train very close to the speed of light. The most important thing to mention (apologies if you already know this, I wasn't sure) is that the train passengers won't ever feel that they are travelling at all and so won't observe any relativistic effects inside the train. The only thing which will be observed to change for the train passengers is the behaviour of the world outside the train, which has a large velocity relative to the train's passengers. 

The way to start thinking about this is to ask yourself what speed you are moving at at this moment, the key is that the answer changes depending on what you measure the speed relative to, in other words your inertial frame of reference. As it turns out there is no way around this problem of relative velocities, it is a fact of life.

As an aside I feel I should mention that *some* impossibilities can form useful hypotheticals, but that's a nuance which I couldn't really explain, I still feel there's no way to consider how a light speed train might behave.. That baseball is traveling at 90% the speed of light, not 100%, which makes all the difference in the world. 

Hypothetically if the train were actually traveling at the speed of light then physics would be totally wrong and there's no point to asking the question because there is no physics to answer it. This isn't meant to be a snarky response, it's just the only correct answer. A massive object traveling at light speed would require you to divide by zero in the formulas that describe it's behavior, so there simply isn't an answer just as there's no answer to what the result of dividing by zero is.. > Quite often classical dynamics ends up being the result of like a truncated Taylor series expansion of a more sophisticated theory.

Could you provide an example? I know there are situations when classical dynamics may emerge effectively in situations where there's no classical dynamics at all. For example, many problems related to minimization of some functionals can be approximately, or even precisely, mapped into dynamical problems (for instance, the method of simulating annealing). But at the moment I cannot think of situation where the classical dynamics emerges from a more fundamental dynamical model except quantum. In fact, I had Ehrenfest's theorem and quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equations in mind when I was saying that the existence of "thresholds of the behavior of energy and matter" is not obvious.

I will try to make this statement more precise but, first, I'd like to note that the problem of energy scales for quantum effects to appear is not that straightforward. The Curie temperature of iron is more than 1000 K. I don't think that it's easy to make an a priori statement about a quantum effect existing at the kilogram scale of mass, tens of centimeters scale of length, and hundreds of degrees scale of temperature. And, yet, it's there. The presence of a variety of macroscopic solid state effects (and, in fact, the existence of solids in the first place) would make us suspect that something is not right with the classical physics and there should be something underlying it. 

Now, we want to build such extension deductively and ask ourselves the question: what is the possible variety of essentially different non-classical theories that admit classical dynamics in one way or another. So, we are trying to anticlassify the classical dynamics. In actual terms, we are trying to quantize a theory but with a twist. There are different quantization procedures but whenever they are applicable to the same situation, they produce equivalent results. Hence the question, is there a consistent quantization procedure that produces inequivalent non-classical dynamics, which still yields the emergent classical dynamics. By inequivalent I mean producing different predictions for comparable situations. For example, I don't know, only continuous spectrum in the two-body problem. At present we know that this is wrong and such anti-classifying procedure should be discarded but let's say we are not now but in the 19-th century, we don't know yet what is the correct result of a non-classical dynamics.

The problem with this picture is that we can screw any standard quantization scheme and call it a day: for instance, we will call the x-coordinate - time, the x-component of momentum - energy and so on and then transition to the classical theory would also include straightening space-time as well. This somehow should be regarded as equivalent to the initial standard quantization. So, is there a quantization procedure which is not equivalent modulo rescaling, gauge transformations and so on?

I have several vague agendas here. One of them can be formulated as the following exaggeration: if there are no anti-classifying procedures inequivalent to standard quantization techniques, there is no true classical/quantum boundary. I've thought for a while about the formulation, I don't like it but cannot come up with a better one.. Once again Europe is better. Right, we can compare accuracy of different theories. Yet, we still run into a problem with a statement claiming, say, that the standard model is more accurate than the classical physics. The range of validity of the classical physics is enormous and it's far from being obvious that measurements with the relative discrepancy smaller than achieved so far within the standard model cannot be squeezed into there. For example, measurements of distances in the LIGO experiment required relative errors to be smaller than 10^(-20) and there's nothing from the standard model there. In turn, the record measurements relevant for the standard model are around 10^(-10), if I remember correct.

Besides the general feature of physical theories (their accuracy is determined by their range of validity), the classical mechanics has an interesting structural property: it admits precise statements. For example, an overdamped oscillator passes through equilibrium either zero or one times, an oscillator with dry friction passes through equilibrium only finite number of times. Making only few measurements, I can _predict_ with absolute accuracy how many times any particular piece of wood attached to a wall with a spring will pass through equilibrium for a given initial deviation. To make this prediction using "more fundamental" theory, I dare to say, is simply impossible. It must be noted here that this prediction is not tautological: the system doesn't need to be prepared in the way to follow the prediction.

Thus, not only accuracy but also predictive power of different physical theories are very stubborn when they are formed into into a statement that doesn't compare apples and oranges. Sure, Newton's mechanics cannot explain the spectrum of the hydrogen atom, but the quantum mechanics cannot explain why a tennis racket is easy to rotate around two axes and is not so easy to rotate around the third one. How to predict Chandler wobbles within the standard model? How to explain the Rayleigh-Benard instability within the general relativity? Can a theory be called more accurate, if it fails to produce quantitative prediction? . Can confirm this man's advice, there is also a lot of biotech in Massachusetts.. Try not to be in pharma because it's a volatile field. As a biologist, you're really far away from the money, and being far away from the money makes you easy to lay off.

Obviously choose pharma over being unemployed, but it would not be my go to. All that said, there are a few bio niches that are really hot in pharma right now, so that's always an option.. Sort of silly to think that a BS in bio will only net you minimum wage, don't you think? It should be pretty obvious that advanced degrees will increase your salary.  How much is dependent on your field, and YOU need to do the research to decide if thats what you want, not some stranger on the internet.. show me an engineer that can use and apply Legendre polynomials and you've got yourself a physicist . Computer engineering basically is electrical engineering with a side of computer science. Electrical engineers often end up competing for the same jobs as computer engineers and computer engineers can always compete for software development and programming jobs as well. Computer engineers are fine as long as you accept you probably aren't gonna get a job at Google working on robots.. Wikipedia is my secret weapon... Especially for obscure statistical stuff.. Photons are indistinguishable, they are all "the same photon". It's like asking if a wave on the ocean is the same one as it was yesterday. You can track any physical property you like, but "which wave it is" is not obtainable information, because there's nothing about the ocean that could answer it. Waves in the electromagnetic field are just as anonymous.. Thank you for agreeing and supporting my argument.. Yes, because relativity, at miniscule fractions of the speed of light, doesn't change the answer.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Yeah but isn't that what most people interact with?. [removed]. Yeah fair, none really.. You can apply it to pretty much everything at human scale, it just has such a small difference from classical models that it’s not worth anybody’s time.  . Yeah thats what I meant.. [removed]. Yes, it doesn’t make sense.  

That’s why it’s a nonsense statement.  Nothing with rest mass can travel at the speed of light.  The problem isn’t the explanation not making sense, the problem is your statement itself doesn’t make sense.. Is it more correct to say physics simply doesn’t have an answer to that question?
During inflation the whole universe grew faster then the speed of light and it had mass then.
We don’t have an answer to that do we?
. >Could you provide an example?

It's been a while. I can't remember specific instances of this happening, but I remember it being a rather common thread. Perhaps I generalized it mentally to hastily. Certainly, for instance, expanding the Lorentz transformation in v/c very easily gives you the classical version. I feel like many, many other examples come from statistical dynamics treatments under various assumptions as well.

Most of the examples I was thinking of indeed came from quantum mechanics (mostly because I know quite a lot more about it than other fields); specifically the idea that quantum systems appear to vary smoothly in energy when they are in sufficiently high in energy. This is also what I meant about being able to generally tell what scales will exhibit quantum behaviour; namely, scales appreciably small compared to the separation in energy levels. At much higher energies, systems will generally be in an incoherent admixture of energy levels not appreciably different from one another.

This is also where macroscopic quantum states come into play; when there is a significantly large energy gap between several coherent multiparticle states and the quasicontinuum of excited states, quantum behaviour will manifest. At sufficiently low temperatures (which depends on the particular system but which are quite measureable experimentally and calculable at the very least approximately) you get relatively stable Bose-Einstein condensates, superconductivity, spin-chains, and so on.

But I think we're diverging down two different trains of thought.. These are excellent points, I probably should have just said "but classical mechanics is still useful" instead of trying to compare accuracy and predictive power of different models.. What a masterfully articulated chain of comments. I'd post this on r/bestof but I'm afraid the content wouldn't resonate with most readers.. >the quantum mechanics cannot explain why a tennis racket is easy to rotate around two axes and is not so easy to rotate around the third one. 

The rules of classical mechanics can be derived and justified using quantum mechanics, so this isn't strictly true. Quantum mechanics contains within it the information you need to know whether classical mechanics will be accurate in a given situation, for example the accuracy to which a piece of metal in the tennis racket will act like a rigid body. There are always simplifications involved, but these are justified with experiment just as any other part of the theory is.. [deleted]. The person I replied to is a kid about to start college who literally asked if it was true who claims all he has heard is bad things about bio grads. Did you not read the full comment thread? Comments like these on the internet can make or break people's thoughts on something. Should they? No, but they do so anyways. It is important to clearly shows a counter point for people to see that contradicts a statement that was flat out wrong. If no one responded, any casual reader would assume that what the person said is true.. CS > Computer Engineering. God bless procrastinating post docs.. i don't think we agree on what "wrong" means. [removed]. [removed]. Yes it is. And that's why classical physics is still super useful. . Never used GPS, huh?. classical physics works well for masses and speeds on the order of magnitude with what we generally observe in our general human frame of reference . [removed]. How do I apply tunneling on human scale ? Or spin ?. [removed]. I should probably have said "a car moving near the speed of light", but the concept is the same. From your reference frame the light leaving the headlights will behave normally, i.e. move away at the speed of light.
The car is irrelevent. It's just an easier visualization than saying something like "a massless construct with the ability to generate photons in a single direction". 

It's wasn't supposed to be a rigorous scientific statement, but I could have been more careful with my words.. During inflation, and in fact right now, space itself grew faster than the speed of light. It's a subtle difference, but no objects are actually moving at the speed of light through space. Instead, space is just getting bigger.

Here's a good short explanation, that hopefully makes more sense than not:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expansion_of_the_universe#Metric_expansion_and_speed_of_light. physics has an answer : the question makes no sense. it's a matter of the geometry of spacetime that means this makes no sense. much like there is no point on a sphere which is north of the north pole. . I agree about the special relativity and was about to mention that I include it into the classical physics (there are way too many non-classical physics out there) as well along the lines of "The classical theory of fields" by Landau and Lifshitz but got distracted.

Yes, it's a different perspective. I agree with what you are saying: there is almost always an indicator showing on which side of classical/quantum we are.. I agree, for what it is worth. It's a shame, though. I think the ambiguities in science are the most interesting bits, and that the stories we tell each other to paper over them are not very interesting at all. . Thanks.. I agree, these arguments with "cannots" are a bit too hastily formulated. In all those examples, "cannot" implies "without distilling the classical mechanics first". Somewhat along with the original comics, this means that in a hypothetical physics course that starts from, say, quantum mechanics students could be told "now, forget all the we learn so far and let's look at this new simplified theory that we arrived at as if it's correct on its own".

I'm wondering, if it's really necessary for the tennis racket, though. At some point, I ought to finish my studies of the dynamics of the angular momentum and see how all that stability/instability business looks like from the quantum perspective.. I've always felt like CS operates in this weird zone where it is an academic discipline that was treated like a professional discipline because there were no professionals when the industry began, so the industry just grabbed anyone who understood computing.  Sort of how early civil engineers were just physicists, or early electrical engineers were mechanical engineering students.

IMO in **undergraduate** CS one does not learn enough mathematics to fall under the scientist umbrella, and one does not learn enough about digital logic to be under the computer umbrella.  Not that CS is a pointless field, someone needs to devise sensible frameworks, new networking protocols, etc.  However, I think most industry professionals who only have a bachelors in CS would be better suited with a software engineering or IT degree, as very people are actually paid to do true computer science.

In comparison, Computer Engineering is essentially an electrical engineering degree where you throw out the extra courses on analog, power, materials science, and wacky physics in order to cover everything from microprocessors and computer architecture, to operating systems, real time embedded systems, compiler design, and networking/communications.  This does push students into a particular set of careers, but the side effect of this is they specialized enough in their bachelors that they get jobs doing exactly what they learned, and don't necessarily need a masters, unlike an EE or CS major who wants to go into embedded systems, firmware, drivers, or control systems.. Physicists are legendary for their laziness.. If it isn't "incorrect" then I fear you may have the wrong definition. Most people use gps?. [removed]. [removed]. The pebbles that sometimes magically appear in your shoes... [removed]. Yes that makes sense. Thank you for your comment. ah thank you for the clarification and I am also rethinking my own statement as my experience with CS students are friends who graduated with the degree, albeit ver few are working as engineers. all models in physics are "incorrect" if you look at an appropriate regime My physics professor is retiring after this semester and we made him this cake.. nan. >writing PV=nRT instead of PV=NkT on a cake for a physicist

It's treason, then.. After your years of service, we give you the world on a plate.  We want you to know the gravity of this moment.. Very cool!!!. Really cool. I'd be funny if he had a slight correction to make on it. Tell him when he’s feeling sad and lonely just jump; the earth will come up to meet him. Is that Alphys from Undertale?. That is beyond sweet! . Professors *retire*?. IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN A FLAT EARTH CAKE!. The fondant of spacetime . SCC represent. . UT Professor?. Then you find out one of the equations are wrong.. That’s such an ATTRACTIVE cake. AYY LMAO. You forgot your light cones!. IPPP durham also made some physics cakes recently. [Link](http://imgur.com/wtP3Fe6.jpg). Damn space spiders always catching the Earth.. Gravity?. This was a triumph.. You silly round-earthers and your "math" and "facts" make me laugh. . Looks like shit . hahahah :) I thought this!. Non-physicist here. What is wrong with writing it one way or the other?. > not using the Van der Waals equation. Hahaha, picked something new today. Thanks!. The attempt on my physicist brain has left me scarred and deformed.... we're doing orbit for you. Thank you Kanye. Same!  There's no better feeling than when people throw out a bunch of random equations to try to make something look too complicated for the average person and I know the meaning, usage, and theory behind every symbol and equation on there.  Bonus: I'm only a freshman physics major!. damn I haven't played undertale yet, but now I really want to know . pun intended? . No. They just take time off to morph into a new form.. Small world. ヽ༼ ຈل͜ຈ༽ ﾉ Raise ur dongers!

^^Dongers ^^Raised: ^^30692

^^Check ^^Out ^^/r/AyyLmao2DongerBot ^^For ^^More ^^Info. Where is the "/s"?. I believe the idea is that physicists love to use Boltzmann's constant (which we represent as the variable "k"). When this is multiplied by the temperature, the product "kT" represents a very common/useful expression in thermodynamics and statistical mechanics. So physicists prefer PV=NkT over PV=nRT, which we often use in chemistry instead.

Please correct me if I'm wrong, or if someone has another explanation.

Edit: Neither equation is incorrect, but it's often a matter of preference, since you can easily switch between them by using the relationship Nk=nR, where N is the number of molecules and n is the number of moles.. Well the formula with Boltzmann’s constant takes into consideration the number density of a gas as in number of particles, as opposed to moles.  Boltzmann’s constant version takes into consideration the average kinetic energy of a gas particle at temp. T.  Pressure is also the (rate of particles crossing an imaginary plane)*(momentum quantity a particle carries across the imaginary plane).

So essentially the units of pressure are the same as energy density (not the same, but have a relationship).  The formula with Boltzmann’s constant describes the properties of an ideal gas with information geared toward *physics* and the old ideal gas with constant R is geared toward information relevant to a *chemist*.  

That’s very watered down and simplified, but that’s basically why.  . n is number of moles. Moles are an abstraction used by chemists to make chemical quantities more achievable in the lab.

Physicists don't care about chemists' convenience and prefer the more physical quantity: N, the number of molecules.. Found my first r/iamverysmart. most of the equations on there were taught in high school bruh. You do realize that you're on r/Physics, right? I imagine that most people on here are familiar with these equations too, and have been for quite some time.. Please deflate your head or stat mech and quantum will for you.. Congrats on knowing the ideal gas law, I can only imagine what merely average people think when they look at that equation. Can confirm that's probably right, as it was also the first thing I thought when I saw this picture.. Always.. Since we're on the physics sub, I think we can assume as good approximation that the comment was sarcastic.. Yeah, P=nkT emphasises the particle nature of the fluid (where *n* is a number *density*). The mean kinetic energy of particles in a monoatomic gas is (3/2)kT per particle. So it's basically saying that pressure is proportional to the density of kinetic energy.

PV=nRT (where n is the number of moles) emphasises that it is a fluid and deals with more bulk quantities, which is why it's more appropriate for engineering. I guess for chemistry it's handy because you deal with moles all the time.. pV=NT if you use natural units in physics.

We like to use upper case letters for extensive quantities (like V, N and S). And use lower case letters for intensive quantities like (p, mu, and T [sometimes denoted t]). The worst part is this one doesn't even look to be a troll. Just a dumbass. 

Edit: Nope definitely a troll I looked through his comments. . idk dude don't jump to conclusions.  Uni teaches stuff with the assumption that you never studied the stuff before in HS, so maybe this guy never learned it until recently.  Let him be proud of himself.

It also isn't wrong to say that the average person doesn't study physics at all.  I went to a pretty nice HS for my area and there was only one physics class, and the teacher had only taken one physics class before in their life.  There were only 4 in the class out of 1500 students, and the year prior the class wasn't even offered.. Is the one on the far left length contraction? It’s a little too blurry for me to see it.. He also has his SAT score on his reddit profile. I’ve never seen anyone do that before. That’s hilarious.. Judging by those downvotes, we can’t . [deleted]. Yea it is. That's really sad. Oh yeah, I'm just assuming cause the vast majority of his comments have hundreds of down votes.  My students have been confusing velocity and acceleration so I made this web-app as a reference. Link in comments.. nan. Why no "acceleration but zero velocity"?

 ^/s. I prefer “velocity and acceleration are in opposite directions,” or (only slightly less good) “velocity and acceleration have opposite signs” to explicit labeling one as positive or negative. You could add an axis to denote direction. I’d do both.

This is a great resource - I bet your students appreciate it.. We need more teachers like you.. I think this is great but could be better with a number showing the current velocity of the ball. Nice work!. crosspost this to r/InternetIsBeautiful, this kind of thing is their jam.. Link to simple web-app: https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/

Not sure if it will help anyone else but I thought I might as well share. I put all my physics web-apps at https://whscience.org

 - Wild Haired Science Teacher.

UPDATE: For everyone wishing it was clear on frame of reference, I updated it so it is explained. In my class we talked about frame of reference for this verbally so it wasn't included. Also, if you want numbers to show add #numbers on the end: https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/#numbers units are explained on the first page.. This is great! I'm currently teaching mechanics labs and I find that most of my students can't seem to understand that constant speed but changing direction is still acceleration. Any chance you could add that one in as well?. Well done my man.. [deleted]. A framing I've found useful for people who don't have a gut understanding of the physical terminology is to contrast an aeroplane with a roller coaster. Human bodies feel acceleration, not velocity, and so that's why a roller coaster that rapidly speeds up and changes direction is more "extreme" than a slowly accelerating plane even though the plane goes faster.

(In actual fact, roller coaster engineers are very concerned with jerk, the change of acceleration with time, as if they get that wrong they can give you whiplash).. Hard to say which velocity is negative when you have no reference frame and arrows on it.... Now show me acceleration with no velocity, please.. How can there be negative velocity? 
It seems like going any direction is velocity.
-Not a physics person. Same but different.  https://www.physicsclassroom.com/mop/m1/sl5details.cfm. I would have added three graphs, one with position over time, one with velocity over time and one with acceleration over time. That would have added further visualization of the functions related to these concepts.. Love the visualisation! Perhaps plotting these onto a distance-time graph would also be helpful. Great work man. Awesome work. Love it, I'm an starter and its useful, thank you for your big help. That’s awesome! Also, having done more than my fair share of time in a physics classroom, instill the distinction between speed and velocity now... saw too many people struggle with that distinction in college courses even.... Acceleration is also changing direction isn’t it?. And now I have this song stuck in my head:  https://www.bing.com/videos/search?view=detail&mid=C81EC0F607FB555429D8C81EC0F607FB555429D8&q=they+might+be+giants+speed+velocity&shtp=GetUrl&shid=d26c0c4a-75c5-4d64-af51-fc1d31341792&shtk=VGhleSBNaWdodCBCZSBHaWFudHMgLSBTcGVlZCBhbmQgVmVsb2NpdHk%3D&shdk=Q3JlYXRlZCBieSBEaXZ5YSBTcmluaXZhc2FuLiBGcm9tIFRNQkdzIG5ldyBDRC9EVkQgc2V0IEhlcmUgQ29tZXMgU2NpZW5jZS4gQXZhaWxhYmxlIGF0IGlUdW5lcyBhbmQgQW1hem9uIG5vdyEgaHR0cDovL2JpdC5seS9BbWF6b25TY2llbmNl&shhk=S%2BA19%2BBru%2FyZqtja2u%2BROb4rYyh1bDXgXRxwbVhtbOc%3D&form=VDSHOT&shth=OSH.Ahi2oR3cyrNNjwzczF99eg. Nice. A suggestion: add a "velocity and acceleration" animation with constant acceleration where the disk comes to rest half-way through (with a big arrow or something popping up) to show an example where v = 0 but a != 0.. How the hell does one confuse velocity and acceleration? Even kids know the difference between the two.

Confusing speed and velocity I can understand though since not all are familiar with the concept of vectors.. This is the kind of stuff we need in schools. Amazing work man.. Maybe use shorter time-steps (looks like .1s, try .01 or less) for the acceleration, it looks jarring.. As others have mentioned, this is really excellent  for students new to these concepts imo 

More educators like yourself are deff needed. The way my teacher always taught it was “velocity is speed, acceleration is change in speed”, making sure to specify that acceleration could be in any direction, separate to velocity

It could also maybe help to show a circle with a sideways velocity and downwards acceleration to prove that point 

Either way, excellent way to visualize the concepts and something I bet my classmates would have loved to have. [deleted]. You should do one with velocity and acceleration but a constant speed, basically turning in any direction. Our teacher just wrote on the board and we understood.
Had no idea people go this far to explain it to students.
Kudos!. Needs some kind of background to help perceive speed. A dot moving on white is hard to discern its acceleration. Wait when you tell them how velocity is changing with acceleration but speed is the same 😆. What age group?. Awesome!. i’m still confused. I once forgot the "direction" part of velocity and said an orbiting planet wasn't accelerating.. wait until they have to learn about angular acceleration ;-/. that‘s awesome.(:. Your website is fantastic. Your community is clearly very lucky to have you so I hope you are appreciated.. Okay dumb question. Say we have a 10lb object moving at the speed of light, constant , no acceleration. Why would this 10lb object be more destructive if I were to get hit with compared to someone hand throwing the object, if force = mass x acceleration. Wouldn't force be equal to zero for the object moving at a constant speed of light?. You should add vectors that follow the ball!. But what about a change in direction?. You should add jerk!. Teacher to teacher, don't reinvent the wheel. Thephysicsclassroom is chock full of html5 chromebook friendly interactives that make for solid virtual labs.. Not a fan of negative velocity example.  That's just positive velocity in a different direction.

I cant run - 10 mph.   Probably more confusing than it's worth.. I did add that to a version. Https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle/. I wonder if this is because fewer young people are driving these days / choosing to pursue a driver's license.

When I was in high school in the 80s, the biggest confusion people had was understanding these were vector quantities. People would say stuff like "same velocity but different direction.". Love it, I'm an starter and its useful, thank you for your big help. Engineering students everywhere thank you.. I fail to see how, once you know what velocity is, one could not understand "acceleration is how your velocity changes".


I'm not bragging or anything. I sincerely don't understand what causes the confusion. You can also 0 velocity if you return to the original starting position, right?. "Velocity is negative" what?
This could be more confusing.
I know that negative means that this balls goes to the left, 
But you should draw vectors on balls so you could clearly see what is happening.
For example let green vector be velocity an yellow acceleretion. And show this in 2d, that would be realy hard to not understand.. Bake his noodle with acceleration and no velocity.. How do students confuse the two? You teaching first graders?. Velocity equal acceleration because they both require a standard momentum to move - basic Physics. Pls tell me you teach 12 yo so I don’t have to cry about how dumb Americans are again.😿. My favorite is the third derivative of motion. It's literally called Jerk. Also the fourth, fifth, and sixth are called snap, crackle, and pop.. So, is acceleration with no velocity a black hole?. You didn't go far enough, jerk!. Throw some. Jerk in there and go have fun. Now if only I could imagin rate of change of jerk.. I'd like to see "snap" and "jerk" added as well!. Now do Jerk, Snap, Crackle and Pop.. Sorta unrelated but I made [this](https://www.reddit.com/user/FlyingSwedishBurrito/comments/ladcqz/this_animation_i_made_to_display_music_polymeter/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf) to visually explain something in music called polymeter. Originally I had it display the dots moving constantly but it felt off. I eventually figured out that a simple velocity based off of -(x(x-steps)) ^ n to create the acceleration you see here, looks really nice to the eyes, and honestly explains it better visually.. This is cool. Can I add a suggestion? Maybe it leaves a stationary image every 0.5 s or something. That way, at the end of its run, you have “motion map” of how the ball moved. Does that make sense?. I love this. One way I think you could extend this, and I'm sure your students would love it (I would too), would also be to sketch out the displacement-time graphs for the four cases:

* velocity positive, acceleration positive
* velocity positive, acceleration negative
* velocity negative, acceleration positive
* velocity negative, acceleration negative

My students have a really hard time with visualizing the *d*\-*t* graphs when the velocity is negative and then dealing with acceleration (as well as figuring out how it curves).

Great job!. All balls have a velocity but their initial velocity is null or not.. For some reason constant velocity looks weird to me, my brain interprets it as accelerating for some reason. Velocity is stable and acceleration is variable. This is awesome! The only thing I would add is [dot diagrams](https://www.physicsclassroom.com/class/1DKin/Lesson-2/Ticker-Tape-Diagrams) for each case.. Ask them if they put the breaks on their car does the car start going backward? Negative acceleration without negative velocity.. One small improvement I can suggest it to use a sandbox environment so that any enterprising student that's interested enough can play around with the code.

As an example, I recently watched [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yy7Q8IWNfHM) about the Arctic Circle theorem, which in turn prompted me to write this [toy app](https://6mq10.csb.app/), with the code [available here](https://codesandbox.io/s/6mq10). With such an approach you can also double dip by being able to offer bonus lessons on writing stuff like this, and if your students are extra motivated you might even find that they can contribute new features and improvements (bonus points are a good motivator here too).. try a ball moving in a circle at constant speed but non zero acceleration to show them importance of direction!. You should do positive initial velocity with negative acceleration for the ball to go in one direction, slow, then go in the opposite.. Add an animation of the ball changing direction. Yah velocity is how fast it’s going but acceleration is how fast it speeds up. i should send this video to my physics teacher. where is the constant speed with acceleration. I think showing the velocity and the rate of acceleration in numbers (m/s and m/s^2) might be helpful.. u/savevideo. I love the idea, but I would suggest to you to increase the increase in velocity a bit more, so it gets more obvious.. May be useful to have some kinematic graphs for each of them when they're alone to show how their trajectories are different. displacement = change in position

velocity = change in displacement

acceleration = change in velocity

?? = change in acceleration. What grade are you teaching?. Definitely should draw the vectors of acceleration and velocity over the particle.. [deleted]. Nasa wants to know you location. That condition actually exists. Imagine throwing a ball up. Before it starts coming back to you (the direction of velocity changes), it is at rest momentarily. And, it still has acceleration due to gravity.. The dot increasingly stands still.. would rotating on the spot be considered 0 linear velocity but constant acceleration?. Is this real?. This is called "compression". Every HS physics teacher ever has to explain how F=ma can happen, even though the thing isn't moving. Hooray for statics.. An orbiting body can have constant speed with acceleration.. This is... Basically gravity right?. That's when you floor the gas but leave the handbrake on. That’s the one that’s hardest for students to think of, and yet it’s a big deal. Watching a dot do it is cool, but actually doing it is better. It’s so hard to think of that a lot of the responses to this comment are jokes and the comment even has a /s marker. Still, this is actually the important one. Students can’t move beyond 1D horizontal kinematics until they’re able to give a convincing answer to this question. Otherwise, students continuously tangle up the ideas of velocity and acceleration.. Then you don't get to laugh inside at the looks you get when you say, "accelerate in the negative direction.". This is a significant point. I often hear something like "acceleration is negative because the car slows down". If you want numbers to show add #numbers on the end: https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/#numbers 

Units are explained on the first page.. Thanks for the tip. I'm doing grad school in physics and it's in large part thanks to teachers like you who love it enough to make things like this. Keep it up!. I got you: https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle/. My students can use the equation no problem. The issue is in precision of language. They say things like "it has a fast velocity" and it's clear to me that they haven't clearly separated the idea of 'moving fast' and 'speeding up quickly' for example.. What you’ll find is that 99% of things that seem dead simple and obvious to you can and WILL be confused by introductory students. A lot of the “bad” teachers and professors I’ve had skipped teaching essential information because in their mind it was obvious, even though it was completely novel to the students.

E.g. “Change in velocity over time” literally has no meaning to someone who hasn’t been introduced to the concepts of “change”, velocity, time, or slopes. Also that’s an incorrect definition of acceleration. Oh boy, you should meet premeds.. There is a frame of reference on the first slide. Sorry I made this for my students and we talked about frame of reference verbally so I didn't make it obvious on the screen.. Throw a ball in the air. The no-velocity part would just be true at an instant; since the particle has acceleration, the velocity can’t stay at zero.. If we are being very formal, we would say that describing any motion requires a frame of references. For example, We could say that North is positive. That would make moving to the south a negative velocity. I didn't originally include that in the app since I told my students we were using a frame of reference of the right is positive.. I actually have a ton of similar things that show the graphs. Here's one where students can drag an object on screen and then see the position, velocity, and acceleration vs. time graphs for example.: https://whscience.org/motiongraphs/

For this one I want to keep it as simple and intuitive as possible.. I actually have a ton of similar things that show the graphs. Here's one where students can drag an object on screen and then see the position, velocity, and acceleration vs. time graphs for example.: https://whscience.org/motiongraphs/

For this one I want to keep it as simple and intuitive as possible.. My class is all 1D so I didn't bother including it. 

If you want an example I made this for another person: http://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle It includes an object moving in a circle.. Yeah I struggled with trying to demonstrate instantaneous zero velocity with acceleration. In the end I didn't include it because although its interesting, it didn't help my students with what they are struggling with.. It should be 60fps. Not a bad idea.. My class mostly sticks to 1D motion but another redditor asked for it so I made this version that has one of the dots move in a circle. https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle. The text is supposed to help, but I agree.. 16ish. Fair enough. This was a small part of one lesson in my class.. They don't. It's not in the standards.. It's always nice to hear something like that.. Once an object hits you, it does not have zero acceleration. It would slow down when it hits you. But that's almost besides the point. 

It's the force on you that matters. That faster the thing is moving when it hits you, the greater *your* acceleration would be and thus the greater the force on *you* would be. 

Also besides the point, objects with mass can't move at the speed of light by definition. That last point is really neither here not there since your question was just about high speeds but I figured I would mention it.. It wasn't part of the lesson I was doing that day, but here is a version with a constant speed and changing direction: https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle. I think jerk would be difficult to visualize with this example. Humans are good at seeing velocity, but the more derivatives you take, the harder time we have seeing it.. > jerk

Also, snap, crackle, and pop. Good advice. I'm now used to having everything set *just* the way I like it.. The mathematics of physics relies on frames of reference which includes coordinate systems. Negative velocity is 100% valid. The animation would benefit from a labeled axis though to make this more clear.. Isn't that what the negative means? 

I tell my students that negative and positive are just directions. We don't do 2d motion in class, so this way the math works out right and the direction of acceleration is consistent for something like a ball thrown straight up and then falling back down.. You're thinking of speed, velocity can totally be negative since it's a vector.. Velocity is a vector my guy, negative geometrically indicates the opposite direction. Thats because youre confusing speed and velocity, you cant run at a speed of -10mph sure, but you can run with velocity -10mph because its a vector quantity, both direction and magnitude are important.. Frame of reference is now labeled.. It's actually a very common problem in physics pedagogy. The problem isn't they can't understand the difference, it's that humans don't keep especially tidy mental categories of motion normally and when not pushed, they use the common conception that is something like, "fast things go brrrr!". That would be 0 *average* velocity. The velocity at any one instant would still not be zero as long as it's moving.. It's actually a very common problem in physics pedagogy. The problem isn't they can't understand the difference, it's that humans don't keep especially tidy mental categories of motion normally and when not pushed, they use the common conception that is something like, "fast things go brrrr!". In this app I wanted to keep is clean and simple.

I have others that show graphs. For example, in this one, the students drag an object around on the screen and then see the resulting distance, velocity, and acceleration vs. time graphs. https://whscience.org/motiongraphs/. I'm not sure what you mean. Something can have a velocity that is changing. For example, the orange dot has velocity and acceleration.. At a redditor's request I made a version where a dot moves in a circle.  https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle/. My class mostly sticks to 1D motion but another redditor asked for it so I made this version that has one of the dots move in a circle. https://whscience.org/examples/vanda/circle. ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/la8qgt/my_students_have_been_confusing_velocity_and/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo)&#32;|&#32;[**Donate**](https://ko-fi.com/getvideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo&message=https://np.reddit.com//r/Physics/comments/la8qgt/my_students_have_been_confusing_velocity_and/). 11th grade, 16-17 year olds. That's the yellow one.. Ok, but I can't tell them my velocity.... For an infinitesimal amount of time. Perhaps OP has already put it somewhere in there!. Imagine Einstein standing in an elevator, or being in non-inertial coordinates. Yep, that is correct.. Technically in free fall an object is not accelerating in relativity, but is accelerating in classical mechanics. GR changes the meaning of acceleration to a deviation from a geodesic. So if you are standing still then you are accelerating upwards 8m/s^2 but while in free fall you are not accelerating. Veritasium has a great video on this.. Wouldn’t acc due to gravity be 0 if velocity is 0 at that instant? Like just inherently due to mathematical definition of velocity?  

Or am I thinking of this wrong? (VERY likely) haha. but for gravity to exist, something HAS to be moving. relative velocity may APPEAR to be 0, but the actual velocity is the gravitational constant (terminal velocity). so velocity = 0 is virtually impossible. (meaning, for life/imagination to exist, velocity cannot be 0). Would that just be U g? (Potential Energy due to Gravity?). Instructors love to put this type of question in Physics I exams. Set the derivative of the position function equal to zero to find out how high the ball will go before falling!. Good point! Super hard to model an instant in time with motion, though.. [[STILLNESS INTENSIFIES]]. This makes me uncomfortable. [deleted]. Well acceleration relies on change of velocity, so there can't be a change of velocity if velocity is fixed at 0

Edit: my bad, there can be acceleration at an instant when the velocity is going from positive to negative or when an object starts moving from rest or stops. All of these accelerations only happen at instants though.. That's awesome.

Now add [jerk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jerk_\(physics\))!. Thank you, I haven't been able to understand the difference until I saw this. The original video made no sense to me.. acceleraiton ?. But do they understand the concept that the rate of change of position is velocity, and the rate of change of velocity is acceleration? There doesn't seem to be any issue in precision of language with that sentence, no?. Oh, my bad. I should say the animation is most excellent in the first place and then propose an improvement.
Honestly, I really appreciate your effort as a teacher, I was lucky to have someone as dedicated as you to teach me physics in elementary school. Having someone like that is just priceless. Thanks for reply and keep doing a good work:). I don't know if there's similar thing in English, but in Finnish (when talking physics) we have different words for velocity (as we say "nopeus") and then "vauhti". While velocity includes direction, vauhti is just the absolute value, so it's always positive and doesn't specify the direction.. Gotcha! Thanks :). Props to you!. Fair enough - what you have is very well designed!. I love it, thank you so much!. Thank you! That makes sense. Yeah I don't know why I said speed of light in particular. I think my mind is on star wars lol. > It wasn't part of the lesson I was doing that day, but here is a version with a constant speed and changing direction:

I was mostly just joshing man. It was a good visualization, as is this. Frame of reference is now labeled.. > I cant run - 10 mph. Probably more confusing than it's worth.

If running to the east at 10mph is having a velocity of +10mph then running to the west would be having a velocity of -10mph.. Yeah totally, negative velocity, since it's a vector, is 100 percent valid. But I can see how it may get confusing there. Maybe talk about the difference between speed and velocity, you can have a negative velocity, but not a negative speed, since it's the magnitude of velocity.. My one recommendation for this video is, when you first mention positive/negative, to put an arrow to the right near the top that says "the positive direction" or "+x" or something.. But since we have no frame of reference like a labeled axis it wouldn't be negative.. Yeah makes sense.... Yea she made that animation for
Folks like you... not to better than $\hbar/2<x>$ anyway. And your mass is?. by that reasoning free falling objects are not accelerating, which is true in GR but definitely not what's typically taught in high school. No. Acceleration due to gravity is constant.. This is a classic mistake. Always comes up in exams.. Yes and no. Everything has potential energy due to gravity, unless you’re so far away from a mass that it becomes negligible. Gravitational potential energy is thus only measured relatively, as is everything in physics.. The second derivative at that point is zero too, which shows that ops poont of having acceleration with 0 velocity is false.

Edit: I’m wrong. The acceleration is a constant (-g). No? In that situation, you body is still not moving and cannot be experiencing acceleration. The normal force isn't acceleration either, and the force of gravity causes you to accelerate, but isn't itself acceleration. They're forces, and in the case you're talking about they net out to 0, hence they cannot impart movement in your body, and no acceleration.. In any frame in which you are accelerating you'd acquire a velocity as well. Can't have it both ways. The frame in which you are accelerating is not frame in which you remain in place.. You can have acceleration with zero velocity. That's how motion starts from rest after all.. > acceleraiton 

That should be fixed as soon as the server updates.. They will probably say it correctly if they are forced to use words like that, but those words don't mean a lot at the gut level to most people. 

We do talk about rate of change, but it's not a familiar concept. It's more like we are using velocity and acceleration to understand rate of change and not the other way around.. Did you ever teach physics at this level(undergraduate intro curriculum)? Students don't really grasp what a rate is, what a proportion means or how to interpret linear graphs and slopes. For a lot of them, it would just be confusing. They cannot read an equation and find the meanings, for them its just numbers. It takes time to develop this math language and way of thinking for most people. They are good at plug and chugging numbers in formulas tho, because school trained them to become Turing-machines specialized in exams. Teaching physics is hard because students know way less than we assume.. Yes there is.

In English, velocity includes direction. Speed is the absolute value.. And a negative acceleration can go to past 0 and speed back up in the 2d example which conveniently stops a 0.

Sometimes things only make sense on a graph not as an explanation.   As an explanation would need to include a reference frame or somehow be more like the acceration example and stop at 0.  Like a 30mph road and a 25mph road difference of 5mph.  

Velocity is how fast something is going.  Acceleration is how fast it is speeding up or slowing down.   That's the explanation.

There is no such physical thing as negative negative velocity just like there is no negative distance.  I can't travel a negative distance. 

I think people get confused with physical representations of negative numbers because they forget that negative is a difference between things.  To me when dealing with negatives as something physical explaining it as a Difference helps.

In this case to have a negative velocity you would have to go a negative distance which is a comparison.. In my several decades of physics, this has never been the way I've seen it.  You're defining a whole different representation that won't match the existing mathematics.  It's positive velocity in a direction that happens to be along a negative axis of your chosen frame.  Normally, velocity has a non-negative magnitude and a direction.  You're going to get some broken results if you apply normal physics (e.g. dot products used to determine magnitude of velocity) in your setting.

Please do not teach people physics using this non-standard representation!. Yeah, probably would be good to add for others. I made it for my class and they have heard me say "We are using right is positive and left is negative" a million times.. Frame of reference is now labeled.. Yeah you're right but I think here it's implied right is the positive x direction and left is the negative. But I agree that would be a good thing to lable for accuracy.. >But since we have no frame of reference like a labeled axis it wouldn't be negative.

Alternatively, he could have labeled the first one positive acceleration.. Gotta be at least 3. Yea I know, I was just thinking of v being defined as dx/dt and even g = dv/dt so wouldn’t the two always come paired? Like physically I guess because the ball comes to a stop (that Is change in direction and therefore change in v) etc then there is still acc at play at every single time point?. At a macro level between a small mass and an extremely large mass, you can effectively assume it’s constant for handwave calculations, yes.. Yea lol was just trying to work through my thoughts on it, I’ve done these courses (which saddens me knowing I was still flawed in my thinking). I find I lose some concepts as I move along through my degree; if I don’t think about them for a while, I just sort of forget even some basic ideas until someone puts me back on the right track lol. Not everything!. Mind showing me the math on that?. No, they're right, from the context of a non-accelerating frame of reference, you're accelerating while standing still on the surface of the earth.

This is a result of general relativity, which found that gravity is not a force, but the warping of spacetime.. [deleted]. Ahhhh excellent point!! I am supposed to be doing QM homework rn and am here getting my mind rearranged by Newtonian mech instead! Hahaha. Thanks for giving them a nice graphical way to understand these tough concepts. The people on here suggesting you can teach this just by giving them an equation or a confusing sentence are bonkers. > Velocity is how fast something is going. Acceleration is how fast it is speeding up or slowing down. That's the explanation.   
>  
> There is no such physical thing as negative negative velocity just like there is no negative distance. I can't travel a negative distance. 

I think you're confusing vector quantities with their scalar counterparts. *Speed*  is how fast something is going. Velocity is how fast something is going and *in what direction*. Acceleration is not just *"*how fast something is speeding up or slowing down", it's the change in velocity over time. Which includes a change in direction. A circular moving object does not speed up or slow down but is under constant acceleration. 

> In this case to have a negative velocity you would have to go a negative distance which is a comparison. 

You would move a negative *displacement,* not distance. Distance does not have a direction (it is a scalar), and therefore can not be negative.. > You're defining a whole different representation that won't match the existing mathematics.

What I am using is a perfectly normal space. It's just R1. 

If you want to use R2 and apply a standard coordinate plane, then I am saying a positive velocity would be v = (1,0). A negative velocity would be (-1,0)

> Normally, velocity has a non-negative magnitude and a direction.

That's what I'm doing. Since it's 1D, the direction is + or - with negative to the left and positive to the right. Velocity can have a magnitude as a non negative number but in the negative direction. 

> dot products used to determine magnitude of velocity

dot product works fine. If something has a velocity of -10m/s then the magnitude using the dot product would be 

    -10 ∙ -10 = √((-10)²) = 10

exactly as you would expect. 

This is a standard representation. It's the most standard 1D space.. think about the function s(t) = t^2 which can model the position as a function of time for an object accelerating due to gravity (i left out the constants). s'(t) = v(t) = 2t, so at t = 0 the velocity is zero. however, s''(t) = a(t) = 2 for all t, so there is always acceleration due to gravity. Good point. Actually I’m wrong about that.. True, but terms have slightly different meanings depending on if you're talking Newtonian or Einsteinian physics.. In any frame in which you are accelerating you'd acquire a velocity as well. Can't have it both ways.. This condition can also happen over time. Imagine throwing a ball in the air. Set the initial time condition to the moment the ball leaves your hand (so that the only force acting upon the ball is gravity). As the ball peaks and then returns to the initial starting condition the net velocity is 0, but experienced constant -9.8 m/s/s acceleration.. Thank you.. TIL About the circle example you gave.  I generally knew that but didn't think about it this way.  That would be an awesome example.   Thanks!. Your usage of "velocity is negative" and "acceleration is negative" is highly irregular.  You're either fuzzily talking about scalars (which would be a magnitude and therefore non-negative) or else vectors (as you should with those terms), but vectors won't have a single sign (so can't "be negative") as they have direction and sometimes (but far from always!) are represented in a coordinate frame.

If, as you say, you're switching the terminology due to being in 1D where it could have a meaning, you're just making it harder for your students to apply what they learn there to anything in a higher-dimensional space.  Using a 1D space will also be problematic for teaching them the difference between speed and velocity, of course.

Either way (incorrect or overly restricted), this approach appears damaging to the learning experience.  But you appear to be committed to it, regrettably.. Thank you! 

Idk what’s wrong with my brain, pretty bad that I couldn’t think of this properly. I appreciate the guidance here :-). If you don’t mind, how do I prove the same thing using divergence? I recently finished classical dynamics and clearly I really need to review.... Indeed!. Yes, and World Manifold opened the discussion by establishing the context of General Relativity.. Yes, that is consistent with what I just said.. haha no man its not an intuitive result!! just keep asking questions and one day you'll know everything. The discussion was whether one could accelerate while keeping zero velocity. Mythbusters fire a soccer ball at 50mph out of a cannon on a truck driving at 50mph in the opposite direction.. nan. You know they could make fast food faster.  Order on your smartphone on the highway.   But instead of taking an exit to get your food, they line a long cannon up with your window of your car.   Taking your speed and location of the smartphone, with a little computer vision image sensing on which window is open.   Boom, burger and fries in your lap and you don't have to lose time getting to the amusement park.. Amazing that they were able to time it so well.. Nice Gif. I'm curious what myth they were trying to bust though. Galilean relativity? That was busted a while ago.. Myhterbusters can be really hit or miss sometimes, and but looking from the macro level everything that must have went into getting this *just perfect* is pretty impressive. . I do not understand what is happening. Where is the cannon? Is it on the white truck? How is the white truck going in the opposite direction from itself and why does the ball fall straight down instead of going to the right? My brain is not working.   . Can't wait until the next episode when they will be traveling at the speed of light and fire a ball at the speed of light in the same direction.. Simple "physics class" problem. I'm kind of surprised it didn't travel forwards just a little bit due to the low pressure air that would be immediately behind the truck.. The fact that this is even a "myth" gives me reason to worry about our school system.. Watched that in a maths(mechanics) lesson only last week.. What were they trying to prove or disprove? Math and physics? . [Video](https://youtu.be/BLuI118nhzc). [deleted]. This is an accurate representation of how my jokes are often delivered.. How were they able to get the cannon to fire at exactly 50mph?. mega repost. This is the closest thing to [real life Car Boys](https://youtu.be/cZBtjrJGVSY?t=12m20s) that I've yet seen.. Okay, let's say the ball comes to a complete rest relative to an observer and an observation point that we see in the video. Why doesn't the truck keep pushing the ball off the "screen?" Also, since the mass of the vehicle is much greater than the ball, why doesn't it slam the ball to the left at 49.99999… Mph? Just wondering.. I accelerate when I fart.. So basically what you are saying is that the speed of the other object does not matter. In other words, a car driving 10 mph is going to sustain the same damage if the other object is stationary, going 10 mph, 20 mph, etc. What if the other car is going 200 mph? . This is cool and all, but congrats on inventing real vector addition.. If that barrel was riffled normally, the ball should skitter directly toward the camera.  But we didn't get a second bounce or marks on the ground except some long shadows.

I'm not sure they rifled their cannon.. [deleted]. [deleted]. So you want the cannon parallel to the car or pointed at the window? Cause the way it sounds it seems like it would work if you fired the food at the same speed as your car parallel to the car's path and then it would essentially be hovering outside your window and you could just grab it. In theory.. Make Fast Food Great Again&trade;. Inb4 satellite connection gets space dusted and the several cars get fast food fucked on freeway. . Don't use your phone while driving a vehicle.. Amazon drone deliveries should use this.. the cannon would have to be moving on the highway too, next to you. so it could fire it through your window, which is at a right angle to the travel direction. Great idea, but lag is bad enough in online games.  I don't want a sandwich up the tailpipe because of lag!. if you watch that episode this was not the first take it took a few tries and they automated the firing. I think they may have automated that. At that point in the show they probably had access to plenty of people and finances to rig a simple tachometer to a trigger system to launch the ball.

They've done a lot of impressive things but I think this one is too perfect to have left it up to a couple dozen tries and get it damn near perfect like they did. I don't think I've seen this episode so I'm honestly just guessing at how they did it.. Their point was most likely that vector addition a) is real and b) applies to velocity. You'd be astounded how many people disbelieve one or the other of those. . IIRC it was mostly just an excuse to do a cool-looking physics demonstration.

But it does show a concept that might not be immediately obvious or intuitive to everyone. I bet a lot of people would initially predict that the ball always moves backwards.. They weren't trying to bust a myth. They were trying to demonstrate a simple physics principle. It took them several takes to get it this close to perfect, since the ball usually had a small velocity relative to the truck.. I think it was about shooting a bullet out of a moving car, if they are going at the same speed, would the bullet just fall. . They weren't trying to just a myth, but verify if it was true. Would a cannonball fired out the back of a truck  at the same speed just call? Confirmed.. How is this at variance with Galilean relativity? After a Galilean transformation from the frame of the car, the ball is at rest relative to the ground.. The cannon is at the back of the truck and is being fired in the opposite direction as the truck is moving. As it is being fired at the same speed as the truck is moving but in the opposite direction, the overall velocity of the cannonball is zero. Hence the cannonball stays where it is (until gravity pulls it down).. Relative to the truck, it was being shot out at 50mph, so I'd think the soccerball leaves the influence of the low pressure faster than it can be affected by it. This was the culmination of several takes of the event and it was the best one at demonstrating V1+V2=0. Other takes had small velocities left or right after the ball was fired for various reasons. Even considering that air pressure will certainly affect the trajectory of the ball, there exists a cannon exit speed for which the sum of all effects leads to 0 velocity relative to the ground.. Well, going by these comments, they proved our education system is sub-par.. > What would happen if the vehicle fired the ball forward? 

It'd move twice as fast as the car, all other things being equal.

. The principle they are showing here is vector addition of velocities:

>V1+V2=V3

In this case, V1 is the velocity of the truck relative to the ground and V2 is the velocity of the ball relative to the truck. They pointed the cannon that shoots the ball backwards and tried to tune the cannon so that the speed of the ball is the same as the truck but in the opposite direction. This gives:

>V1-V1=0

The video shows the ball just falling down with almost no velocity in the frame of the ground. If the cannon pointed the other way, you'd have:

>V1+V1=2 V1

and the ball would be moving at 100mph.

On a fighter plane, everything on the plane is moving with the same velocity as the plane. So, if you're moving at 1500mph and fire a missile forward with a speed of 1mph, you'll see it drift away from you with a speed of 1mph even though its velocity relative to the ground is 1501mph.. Yes, in fact that is the reason that missiles aren't magic bullets like people think. If you are at 1500mph fire a missile at someone going the other direction at 1500mph, it has to use a lot of energy to turn around and make up a 3000mph differential. So while a missile does not have to be fired dead on like a gun does, there is still a limit to the directions and speeds that it can hit a target. The theory for how to outmanoeuvre missiles was given by John Boyd, an american fighter pilot. . While running at fifty miles an hour in one direction, you deliver the joke at fifty miles an hour in the other direction? No wonder they fall flat, it's basic physics.. I think they'd measure how fast the cannon shoots first, and then adjust the speed of the car to cancel the difference . They adjusted it until it consistently fired 50mph on the ground and then took several takes of it until they got this result because of small variations producing slight velocities in the ball relative to the ground.. In order to get away from it faster?. Is this a meme I missed or did the ketamine kick in early? . why would you rifle an air cannon to shoot a soccer ball? . Ok. While technically a perfectly valid view, what the fuck does it have to do with the cannon ball?. I am 14 and this is deep.. /r/nocontext. Nonsense. Liquidize it and make it dart born and have it shot into your neck. . Phrasing. . [deleted]. make fast food fast again mafffa. Mitch Hedberg

Perhaps you could invent a lunch gun. Because I am too lazy to chew my food 

Something along those lines...kinda relevant . Oh it was WAY more than a few tries.  They tried it over and over for 3 days.  :). They also had to fine-tune the gas levels to get the ball to be fired at exactly 50mph although i suspect due to the variables in a homemade cannon there may have been an element of luck. > You'd be astounded how many people disbelieve one or the other of those.

Einstein for one. A lot seem to believe him. It would be amazing if they could add in a y vector to their cannon and dial up the speed such that x still equals 50 mph, then have someone walk as the truck passes and catches it as it drops.  Thar would look so cool!. [deleted]. Yeah, it seems kinda like the two bullets fall at the same speed whether shot or just dropped myth. Not really a myth but awesome to see a practical demonstration.. All the people that believe that if they're in a falling elevator that they'd be okay if they just jumped at the last second too. . It's not at variance with it. That wasn't my point. I don't know what the myth they were testing was. . oh my gosh, that is amazing. Thank you for explaining! If a person ran backwards and threw a ball with a small amount of force would the ball do the same thing?. [deleted]. Well explained. It gets much more complicated with air resistance or very high speed (relativity) anyone interested in this sort of thing should look into some online physics resources. Anyone seeing this feel free to pm me if you need to be pointed towards some resources that might work for you.. I just refer to the falling flat like a lead balloon. My jokes are not as nuanced as you are giving me credit for.. Dude, why WOUDLNT you rifle an air cannon to shoot a soccer ball?. To cause the soccer ball to rotate along it's path during flight.. [removed]. Why not pre-digest it and have an IV drip installed?. They invented the [Cinco Food Tube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-o7YG3x0DI) just for that. You're crazy. I like you but you're crazy. . yes, it works. The hard part in the episode was getting the truck speed exact. They had no automation to help. Simple foot on pedal and eyes on gauge.. I wouldn't say 'also'. An IR light and a phototransistor will do that with absolutely no problem. 50mph is 880 inches per second, 0.88 inches per millisecond or 0.00088 inches per microsecond. A typical, off the shelf,  sub $2 general purpose photo interrupter (not even high speed) has a rise time of around 10 microseconds, but that's not even the variance in response time, which is much less than 10microseconds. I would guess that even an industrial automation pulsed IR photoeye running at 40khz would be fine, with a response time of around 25-50 microseconds. Once you get the eye built and figure out the delay of the firing system you could have it fire at the right time all day long.

The hard part is the variance in the acceleration down the barrel. Also, the truck is going to have a small gain of velocity from the force of firing the cannon ball.. [deleted]. Not at 50mph.  Stop trying to make this controversial.. The fuck? The experimental evidence was that the speed of light was constant. That wasn't Einstein.

Einstein's insight was that you can have relative velocity vectors and a constant speed of light at the same time. He believed in relative velocity at a time when there appeared to be experimental evidence to the contrary. So it's the opposite of what you're saying.. http://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/physics/Relativity/SR/velocity.html. I have multiple friends who think you don't need to wear a seatbelt if you sit in the back. One friend was refusing to buckle in while I was driving. Told him if he is willing to run full speed into a brick wall, which would only be around a 10 mph collision with a stationary object, I wouldn't ask him to buckle in. He didn't take me up on the offer.. Wait... are you talking about the old myth: "Hitting another car with both of you going 60mph is like hitting a brick wall at 120mph?". Is a myth. Because of lift. The fired one takes significantly longer to hit the ground. In a vacuum it holds. Not on Earth.. Do you think this was never really based on an actual science fact, but instead was meant as a generalization to give an idea of how fast the bullet was traveling? . Wouldn't they?  If you could jump at the same speed as the elevator was falling, and it had no ceiling, and you could time it perfectly, technically you would be fine, right?. Perhaps they were testing the myth that everything in a show has to conform perfectly to the title of the show.. If you threw it at the same speed you were running, yes.. Well it does, it's just that half of that force has already been spent because the plane weighed more from carrying the bullet until it was fired \^\^. No no, the lead balloon was a different episode.  It actually floated too, btw, so your metaphor doesn't work.. [deleted]. [deleted]. this bot sucks. Why not blend it and make them give you an enema like with coffee. Me me I'm a boat man and a food tube man. Thanks, Cinco. . They couldn't use a truck with cruise control? . I meant the variables in getting the ball to fire at 50mph out the back. I think they are referring to the speed of light, where vector addition in respect to velocities are irrelevant in every reference frame. 

If you're moving at 0.99c in some direction and fire a beam of light in the opposite direction, the lightbeam will not only move away from its source precisely at c, but it will also approach the ship behind you (also travelling at 0.99c) at precisely c. Photons have no fucks to give about our velocity vectors.. Methinks you aren't that familiar with the concept of reference frames as they apply to special relativity.. I age faster in traffic so I don't think he's being controversial at all. Just that Einstein had it backwards. Yes, at all speeds. Just not by as much at slower ones.. Maybe you should send your friends some videos of car crashes. [They'd like to try one of these.](https://youtu.be/2A2gD7RHUPo). 10mph full speed?

Someone should offer to teach you to run.

. [deleted]. I dunno, it was pretty close, [39ms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D9wQVIEdKh8). That's close enough to make me think lift wasn't enough to do anything.. Why is there asymmetrical lift on a spinning bullet?. I think it was based on basic science principles certainly, but I don't remember the whole episode so I don't recall if it's based on a specific myth or incident. They wanted to test if a bullet falls at the same speed even though one bullet was shot horizontally and the other was just dropped.

In physics, projectile mechanics, we assume x and y velocities are independent and this was a fantastic way of showing it as close as humanly possible.. >If you could jump at the same speed as the elevator was falling

That's the rub. If you could jump at the same speed it's falling, then you could jump as high as it started. Meaning if it started at 10 stories, the speed that it's falling at will be the same as a person on the ground being able to jump 10 stories up.

Edit: Also, you'd be in free fall, so it'd be very hard to even be touching the ground, but that's a different problem.. That would mean the acceleration from the jump is similar to the deceleration from the impact.  Your legs would shatter from the energy.

And if you're strong enough to take that acceleration, then you're strong enough to withstand the impact, so no need to jump.. But it would look as if you just dropped it and moved out if the way. . Thanks. Maybe this is what baseball pitchers do. The pitcher leans back and at the same time throws forward. The ball appears to sit up and then drop down suddenly over the plate.. Right; it's just a silly show.

But it is a little worrisome to see so many down votes on my comments on appropriate experiment setup.  I don't know if people understand rifling or if the end result was so important to folks, they voted with their feel-feels.
. Down.. What was it?. Just put it in the toilet, cut out the middle man.. Cruise control is only good for +-1mph, on average. Here they're clearly within 0.5mph or less of their target speed (1%).. especially with the car vibration meaning that there's no reason to expect that your 50mph calibration of the cannon on the ground is going to hold. > Photons have no fucks to give about our velocity vectors.

I should open up my relativity module with this very important fundamental principle.. The answer to this is to change the definition of momentum. It's momentum that's conserved, it's just that it looks like mass\*velocity at low velocities. . [deleted]. Even with relativistic corrections, if you shoot a cannonball at -.5c (local frame) from a car traveling at .5c relative to our stationary frame, the cannonball will be at 0 m/s in the stationary frame.

Exactly canceling the velocity and having 0 velocity relative to one of the frames are the only two situations where the classical result is equal to the relativistic result when adding velocities.. Not in this case. We and the cannonball are both travelling at 50 mi/hr in the rest frame of the truck.. Person gave a ball park assumption. Someone should teach you to think critically before opening your gob. OK.  Understood.

I just remember the whole thing when I was a kid about "hitting another car both going 60mph is like hitting a brick wall at 120mph."  It's a myth.  And wrong.  . https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precession

the asymmetrical part is gravity. Bullets also drift ever so slightly left or right, depending on the direction they spin. Right hand twist rifling sends the bullet to the right. The effect is tiny, though, comparable to a slight change in wind speed. I think it has something to do with precession. It's not to be confused with the coriolis effect.. Except that if you just dropped it it'd still have horizontal velocity..... That is due to spinning the ball, which can create a small suction on one side and cause the ball to curve or dip.. That's mostly due to spin and its effect on air resistance, and is made more dramatic by the camera lens (same reason the pitcher looks smaller than the batter). It can't. Once the ball leaves the end of the cannon/hand of the pitcher, theres no longer any control over the ball.. [deleted]. You're getting downvoted because your comments don't have anything to do with the topic.  (which is the definition of what should be downvoted)
  
No one cares about "proper cannon rifling" in an experiment where the cannon itself doesn't matter.  It could have been a giant slingshot that shoots at 50mph.. Falling... with style. hmm.  I don't remember.  maybe we can resummon it by saying /r/nocontext again.  It didn't do anything remotely useful.  It also wasn't funny.... Lol I wanna know too. https://frinkiac.com/video/S14E11/i-9hc6fBIatURVFNZCVWzkQ1tko=.gif. The ball takes about a second to drop, so the car and cannon speeds must have been within about 5 centimetres per second.. ~~Einstein didn't believe in vector addition? I mean, in other context than c?~~

Nvm, I think I got what you meant.. Hmm, you're just typing random words you've seen used before in this subreddit aren't you?. Someone should teach all of you some manners. . Don't be a cunt. It's mostly wrong because a car is not a brick wall.

Hitting another car both going 60mph is like hitting a brick wall at 60mph.

Hitting another car both going 60mph is like hitting a parked car at 120mph.

. What's wrong about it? If you were to replace the brick wall with a stationary car, would it be correct?. But if the rotational velocity vector is forward (and it is) and the gravity vector is down, then the only perpendicular direction left is... left or right. Besides you were talking about vacuums just last comment. I meant if you dropped it standing on stationary ground as opposed to the truck. . you guys are really smart . my mind: ....   ... This service is suspended until further notice. EDIT- Sorry just noticed comments should not be jokes. thanks you guys really helped me!. An good experiment setup would include a rifled barrel, because imparting gyroscopic stability could potentially maintain projectile stability.  

Now, who really cares when it's the Mythbusters, but then so many down votes, in r/physics no less.  We all expected the result we got, but that doesn't mean you toss away careful, reasonable test setup.

My comments followed reddiquette and the rules of the sub, so the voting here just comes off like the standard proceedings of r/circlejerk.  That's not okay in r/physics, imo.

It's just reddit karma and Mythbusters, so no worries where I'm sitting.. 5 cm/s = 0.11 mi/hr. No, and there's no need to be an asshole about it. It's simple: in the rest frame of the truck, the cannonball is moving to the right at 50 mi/hr, as is the camera. Thus, they are in the same reference frame.. No u. [deleted]. > Hitting another car both going 60mph is like hitting a brick wall at 60mph.
> Hitting another car both going 60mph is like hitting a parked car at 120mph.

Your math here does not work.  Two cars hitting head-on at 60mph each is like one car hitting a stationary object going 60mph.  It doesn't matter if that object is another car or a wall.  Or a building.  Or a cement mixer.  It's all the same.. Nope.  Two cars that hit head on both going 60mph is exactly the same as one car hitting a stationary object (car, wall, mountain, etc.) going 60mph.. That's the point.. Go watch a game of pro ping pong and watch the balls curving through the air all over. A ball cannot be controlled once a player is no longer touching it.. How is stability through rotation important when the ball is stationary with respect to the air and when the object is rotationally symmetrical along all axes? . They weren't demonstrating projectile stability, though. It would have added an undesired, uncontrolled, excessively complicated element to the experiment.. But again what you're typing has no relevance at all to this subthread. I get that you're waffling about rest frames and so on because you think that's the way to talk here.

But, if you read back up the thread to the first post I made you'll see what I said is perfectly true in all cases and where you said "not in this case" was simply wrong - because you're just typing wibble.

This post had a link you should probably read through.
https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/64hi7x/mythbusters_fire_a_soccer_ball_at_50mph_out_of_a/dg2i4dc/. Which one are you talking about?

For the first one, in both cases your car will come to a stop, either because the other car is symmetrical and cancels all your speed, or because the wall is unmovable.

For the second one, the speed relative to the other car is the same, thus so is the kinetic energy.  The fact that the speed/kinetic energy is different compared to the ground is not relevant (in a hypothetical, perfect physics world of spherical cows).. > Two cars hitting head-on at 60mph each is like one car hitting a stationary object going 60mph.

Which is what I said in the first sentence you quoted.

>  It doesn't matter if that object is another car or a wall. Or a building. Or a cement mixer. It's all the same.

So you're saying it doesn't matter if it's a parked car or a moving car that you hit?  And what if you hit a feather?  Same as a cement mixer?

It's obviously not all the same, and the reason is that the car doesn't necessarily stop, it can make the other object move instead.

See [inelastic collision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inelastic_collision) with an animated example of a perfectly inelastic collision between equal masses.  That's what would happen if hitting a parked car: they both go at half the original speed of the moving car.

. The test was done in ambient conditions where a directed, random gust of wind could have altered the end result.  Rifling could have mitigated that risk to the test result.

But who cares, actually?  Mythbusters pulled off a fun stunt, and I think my reddit karma hemorrhage might be the only actual damage done.. Ensuring flight stability of the projectile with barrel rifling would "have added an undesired, uncontrolled, excessively complicated element to the experiment"?

That doesn't make sense to me.. Just so we're absolutely clear: you mean that if the truck and launcher operated at 400,000,000 mph instead of 50, the ball wouldn't be in the lab frame after the launch?

I would expect them to cancel out even in that case, because u and v are equal and in opposite directions. The relativistic correction doesn't matter, because u+v is still zero. Where am I going wrong?. For the first one, you are right. There is twice as much total kinetic energy for the two cars than for the one car into brick wall case. Ideally, the energy is symmetrically distributed between the two cars. If you assume the wall is perfectly rigid (in reality it wouldn't, but I think it would be pretty close), then this first comparison holds up, since all cars absorb the same amount of energy.

For the second one, the 0-120 case has double the kinetic energy before the crash than the 60-60, but how are you to say how much kinetic energy there will be after the crash? In reality, the stationary car would start moving with the moving car after the collision, though some energy will be absorbed by the inelastic deformation of the cars. You would need to figure out much energy is lost to the inelastic deformation, making this problem non-trivial. 

There's no easy way to equate the 60-60 and 0-120 cases. If you just assume all velocities instantly become zero on impact, then the 0-120 case will have an impact with double the energy than the 60-60 case. If you try to model the 0-120 cars as perfectly elastic billiard balls then it will again give you a different answer, i.e. it will tell you no energy was lost at all. The true answer is somewhere in between and depends on the material properties and structure of the cars.

Edit: Thinking it over, the 60-60 and 0-120 case would actually be the same if you assume a perfectly inelastic collision. For the 120mph car, it's like on impact you doubled its mass and halved its velocity, which gives the same loss of kinetic energy as the 60-60 case. I'm not sure how accurate this assumption is for actual cars to be honest.. [deleted]. >  And what if you hit a feather? 

Of course not.  That's why I didn't mention anything as ridiculous as that.  . Except there's no stability to be gained when it's stationary in the air.... There's no flight involved. There's no stability needed. All rifling does is add unnecessary variables.. Velocities don't add. Earlier in the thread the guy said they did - and that some people didn't believe this and I pointed out that a guy called 'Einstein' didn't believe this and many people agree with him.

And that's it - that's all that was said. Velocities don't add.

Then a few people started saying stuff about "50mph" which was wrong. Or showed they hadn't actually read the context at all. Culminating in now one or two of you typing more and more wibble about rest frames and using speeds that really has no bearing at all on what was said.

As I say, read the subthread for the context before hitting reply and drop all this "lab frame" bullshit, it just makes you sound silly.. For the first one, you didn't really provide a compelling argument.  Do you not agree that two similar cars hitting each other at the same speed will stop?  Do you not agree that a car hitting a strong wall will stop?

For the second one, kinetic energy is measured compared to a reference frame.  When the reference frame is one of the cars, the difference in speed is the same in both scenarios (120mph) and so is the kinetic energy.

See also [inelastic collision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inelastic_collision) with visual examples of a perfect inelastic collision: after the collision, both objects move at half the speed of the initial one.  The car goes from 120 to 60, which is the same acceleration as going from 60 to 0.
. >Velocities don't add.

Which is incorrect if you take it as an absolute. In this case, they do add, because the velocities happen to be equal and opposite. You can call that wibble if you want, I couldn't give a shit if I tried.

That said, you know full well that OP was talking about regimes of physics that affect daily life, because that's all Mythbusters is able to test. You opened the doors to pedantry when you brought relativity into it as a technicality. Neat. https://pubs.aip.org/aapt/ajp/article/91/10/819/2911822/All-objects-and-some-questions. Heyyyy, this graphic was done by Charles Lineweaver and company. This dude *knows* how to make awesome graphics for cosmology. Some of my favorite figures about Lambda-CDM can be found in

* Davis, Tamara M., and Charles H. Lineweaver. "Expanding confusion: common misconceptions of cosmological horizons and the superluminal expansion of the universe." Publications of the Astronomical Society of Australia 21.1 (2004): 97-109. https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0310808

* Davis, Tamara M. Fundamental aspects of the expansion of the universe and cosmic horizons. University of New South Wales (Australia), 2005. https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0402278

Love their stuff. Thanks for sharing!

**Edit:** Shout out to Vihan Patel for making the ones in OP's post.. It's fascinating that such a broad range of particles/objects from atoms to the Sun, have a density of approximately 1 g/cm^(3).. It feels like when you’re 6 and have a fever dream. What a fantastic paper, very accessible to read as well as the great graphics. Includes a classic physicist line: "Humans are represented by a mass of 70 kg and a radius of 50 cm (we assume sphericity), while whales are represented by a mass of 10^5 kg and a radius of 7 m.". ELI20 (I took physics throughout high school, and I took some lower-level physics courses in my undergrad, but physics is not my major). What am I looking at exactly? What are the omega symbols in the legend? What are the axes referring to? Radius of what? Mass of what?. What is the black QG section represent?. Yet again humans fall in the middle of a log scale.. I’ll copy what I said in an earlier thread on this because I think people are missing the coolest bit about this plot!

“There’s a lot in this plot, but I believe what they’re really trying to show is that the Hubble radius and mass of the universe lie on the Schwarzchild radius line of this radius-mass plot. In other words, the universe has the same density as a black hole the size and mass of the universe (assuming a flat Minkowski spacetime surrounds it). Which is… an interesting observation. I suspect they’re suggesting that the universe is not surrounded by flat Minkowski spacetime.”. I get the "black hole - limit", but what is the Compton limit? Is this like a limit for low density?. I want to install this in a mall map or downtown Toronto with the caption you are here. Yes, mmhmm. [deleted]. This is the content I come to reddit for. Assuming thats the log radius of a perfectly spherical whale?. I saw the picture and I immediately thought it was woo. 

I was happily mistaken.. I had no idea Flea was that dense. It’s dope. Fantastic plot. I only wish they included a full resolution copy in the paper.. TIL that voids are the heaviest things in the universe.. I study economics, i still find this interesting. I didn’t know voids are the heaviest. A little lost on why black holes is placed where it is although assuming its the closest thing we understand of quantum gravity im probably wrong as this isn’t my field lol. Love this graph!. TAKE ME TO THE SUB-PLANCKIAN UNKNOWN. I didn't know that atoms spanned such a large range of sizes. This is of course a log log plot but on it the length of the atoms smear is about the same length as the distance between whale and human.. Oh, WD and NS are white dwarf and neutron stars.. I've been out of physics for awhile but all of the new cosmology work is pulling me back in. Feels like we are close to another it's all wrong moment. Had a thought with this chart and would love someone who knows what's going on to opine on it.

If we are in fact inside a black hole and the universe continues to expand along this line, then could the expansion of the universe be caused by more matter falling into our universe sized black hole? And if so, could we actually see varying speeds of universe expansion over time due to a varying volume of matter falling into our universe sized black hole?

The closest I got was finding some work by Maldacena on ER - EPR wormhole bridges that connect through the black hole horizon. Maybe that bridge exists in our universe and we could somehow test for varying expansion speed over time or some other artifact in deep time that would point to this type of bridge operating...

Thoughts?. look imma be honest dog, i study fish for a living. nothing of this makes sense to me. What's the value of m_p (the X axis)?. This is so cool but I need explanations. Mmmm. Forbidden mass.. I know just enough about what I'm looking at to be frustrated that I don't know what I'm looking at.. So this is the answer to life, the universe and everything else? I thought its 42. I love physics but i need some explanation on this graph. The lack of spherical cow on this chart is tragic.. I want this as a cross-stitch on a couch pillow.. Interesting to me how it shows carbon based life. Broadly evolution of life requires two things: enough differentiation of matter to allow information to be inherited, and low enough density for living things to be able export entropy to their environment. Typically there also needs to be an energy density gradient (radiative, thermal, or chemical) to drive the entropy export and fuel reproduction. Many ways to satisfy the third condition.

In principle, evolution by natural selection is possible with other substrates besides carbon-rich macromolecules in aqueous solution. We’ve yet to observe it.. Seems like the authors believe that measurements of Super Massive Black Holes above Mdot 5x10¹⁰ shouldn't be counted on the graph because they would fall outside the gravitational limit.

Edit: Mdot should be read as Msolar, where 1 Msolar is the mass of the Sun.. Wtf why is reddit suggesting physics posts to me? My dumbass didnt even finish high-school. What gender flag is this?. Eli5?. Over time, I've seen hate for GPT in this sub, but I found this [ELI5 summary](https://i.imgur.com/JNTUVKo.png), and this [list of insights](https://i.imgur.com/3LoFjRV.png) gleaned from the graphic pretty interesting.. I don’t have the knowledge to fully understood this, but I have enough to know this is cool!. Could someone give me an ELI5 for this? This looks really interesting but I don't know anything about physics.. Would love to high that quantum uncertainty. Sincerely love this. Where do dark matter and dark energy fit in?. [deleted]. I don’t know what any of this means but it seems important. As you noted, this is neat. Thank you.. The grey area of this chart represents your mom.

...... I'll see myself out.. This is so freaking cool, and the title of that paper is 1000%. > forbidden by gravity

you can't tell me what to do and neither can Sandra Bullock. No idea what I'm looking at but I really wish I did. As a lamen person on the topic, what the hell am I looking at?. Galaxies have the same density as neutrinos?. “COVID Virus” slightly ruined it for me.. why specify?. Very cool!  Thanks for psting.. Took me some time to understand what I'm looking at. Turns out that photons and perhaps gluons are the only things we know exist that can't be put on that chart. Please, I want some smart people to comment on that.. What a perfect surname for someone who makes lovely graphs.. Do you happen to know what tools are used to create those charts?. Thanks for providing more information! :). When I used to coach colleagues on passing their PhD oral qualifying exams: Condensed matter has a density around 1 g/cm^3 and a bulk stiffness in the GPa. Divide by 2 for the shear stiffness. The stiffness of gases is around their pressure, and their thermal expansion coefficient is around 1/T. Surface energies are around 1 N/m, or 1 J/m^(2). Compliant materials have a Poisson ratio near 1/2. And so on. It's good to be in the ballpark.. Stuff hanging out at a reasonable distance. Average density, yes. The actual range of density is much wider.. The magic of log plots. I don’t know much about physics but why doesn’t that surprise me that they all have a similar density?. HUMAN 
WHALE
MILKY WAY 
PROHIBITED BY GRAVITY😭🤣. Consider a spherical cow. A representative human has the same volume as a 1m diameter sphere? Seems large. I think I could squeeze into such a sphere.. And then you guys shit on engineers because we say that pi=3 and g=10. Domains of mass vs. size. Small and massive --> Black holes. Small and light --> quantum. The domains of everything we know of matter and energy exist within the narrow band in the middle.. You're looking at a plot of the physical size versus mass of everything ever. The omegas represent the largest densities of things (corresponding to different cosmological eras) and the radii are found assuming each object is spherical. This is described in the paper: "Starting with inflation, the dominant densities have been the densities of the false vacuum energy of inflation (⁠ ΩΛi⁠), radiation (Ωr), matter (Ωm), and finally today, vacuum energy or dark energy (⁠ ΩΛ⁠)." and, e.g., "Humans are represented by a mass of 70 kg and a radius of 50 cm".

Edit: oh, and it's in logarithmic scale, the numbers represent powers of tens.. The axes are all in units of mass/distance, just at different scales. You can see how the axes have the same tick spacing, just different offsets because we have a log-log plot.. Governed by quantum gravity (and as of yet totally unknown). I mean, there may be more to the graph, we just happen to be able to "look equally in all directions". Something something humans are the universe realising itself. That’s also partly due to the fact that weird scaling laws will fall out of self-organising systems too though.. yeah, the original graph was one on the anthropic principle, a note form Carr and Rees in Nature 1979.. Yeah, before reading the comments, the things I found most intriguing were that it had the Hubble Radius right around where the Observable Universe radius would be and also that the line of "Forbidden By Gravity" is perpendicular to "Quantum Uncertainty". For the first point, apparently the Hubble radius is always larger than the Observable universe radius. Its confusing for me since the Observable universe is 13.7 billion light years in radius if you look at the "snapshot" we are receiving, but its 46.5 billoin light years in radius if we extrapolate how our snapshot unfolded to the present moment. I guess the Hubble radius is slightly larger than 13.7 billion light years... and so "currently" its a bit bigger than 46.5 billion light years?  


Also, there's got to be some key insight about cosmology in that the quantum uncertainty line is perpendicular to light can't escape gravity line.... I'll have to ponder.. Well, what is the significance of the diagonal lines with time labels (The "now" line and the purple strip and so on!)?. I'll paraphrase what someone else said in a different thread.

The Universe isn't defined by a Schwarzchild metric, but rather a FLRW metric, and therefore a "Schwarzchild radius", which holds physical meaning only within a Schwarzchild metric (i.e. that which describes a stationary, non-rotating, electrically neutral black hole), is entirely meaningless in this context.. It is not possible to localize a particle to a region smaller than its [Compton wavelength](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compton wavelength).. I'd totally buy this as a poster. Yeah, what's up with that?!. Black holes all have the same size-mass ratio (equal to 2*G). Once something gets to this point, it *becomes* a black hole. You can't get a smaller size-mass ratio.. “Flea”. I Lmaooo when I read that. Idk why. Just hilarious that this was the chosen being.. If we were inside a black hole, how could we exist in an infinitely dense  point? How would our bodies exist?. You could replace the human label with a fish label and you wouldn't be too far off. From the paper:

> Humans are represented by a mass of 70 kg and a radius of 50 cm (we assume sphericity). This is literally a chart of all the spherical cows in nature. The region forbidden by gravity is delineated by the Schwarzchild radius. Maybe I misunderstand what you mean, but all back holes regardless of mass will lie exactly on that line.. ChatGPT is wrong on multiple counts.

* Quantum uncertainty: quantum effects dominate well before this region. The choice of Compton wavelength is because that's the point where RELATIVISTIC quantum effects become dominant.

* Forbidden by gravity: a black hole of a given size would be the maximum mass, not minimum.

* Other observations: the energy scale extends well beyond electroweak and GUT scales in both directions.

* Dominations: it does not explain what a domination is. This is a color coding for which objects where the dominant source of density in the universe at that time when the universe had that average density. And it incorrectly labeled inflation as neutrinos.

* Confluence of quantum and classical realms: the smallest observable black holes are well away from the region of quantum gravity.

Instead of taking the lazy and wrong route of asking ChatGPT, just read the linked paper, which went into plenty of detail at a very basic level.. The paper does a pretty good job.. These are all log scales of the same quantity, just with different units.. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nominative_determinism. r/NominativeDeterminism. I’m the Patel in Lineweaver & Patel.
I used fairly basic Python.. Sorry, I don't, but I'll send an email and ask.. came here to ask this. > And so on

Please keep going. Poisson's ratio of 1/2 corresponds to incompressible matter.. Neat stuff. [removed]. Would u agree a black hole is an object as it takes up space?. They’re all atomic matter. The only things outside that range are either individual particles, galaxies and clusters, and some interesting items like neutron stars. 

A flea, person, whale, and rock aren’t made out of very different things, so on a chart like this covering many orders of magnitude, they’re all about the same density. 

As far as why it’s 1g/cm^3 - that’s not a coincidence. That’s how we defined the gram in the first place - the weight of a cubic centimeter of water.. I have a book by that name. It’s accurate enough for a log scale where differences are resolved in powers of 10. You guys say that???. Pi=3 seems terrible to my engineer mind, but g=10 is a good enough approximation for me.. But why does it say “gravity won’t allow it” then shows black holes in that space ….. is this to mean they don’t exist?!. So log scale just means powers of ten every unit increase?. Is it illustrated correctly in the graph? I mean is it both forbidden by gravity and quantum uncertainty? Or could its own region?

What if the graph should have regions "allowed by gravity" and "quantum certainty"? Would it change the perspective on how we think about the QG region?

I'm confused.. Cosmological Narcissism Something. The diagonal lines are lines of constant density. The universe has always had very uniform density and the time labels are saying "When the entire observable universe was this dense, this is how much to had passed from the big bang". For the first 380,000 years of the universe, the universe was mostly radiation and the pink section is radiation dominated universe. During this time the universe accelerated in its expansion. Purple is matter dominated era of the universe when all the radiation was abosrbed/bound up in atoms/matter. The universe slowed in its expansion from gravity pulling it back together. The light gray area is the dark energy dominated era where dark energy overtook matter's influence and the universe began to accelerate in its expansion once more. We are currently in the gray area, but also the observable universe is smaller than the hubble volume/radius so I'm a bit confused. Ah nice, thank you. Does "not possible to localize" mean, that there can't be a particle in this region, or does it mean it could be there, but we can't localize it?. Also, a circular orbit of a test mass m around such mass M at that radius will sweep one unit of Planck area each unit of Planck time. It is the slowest possible angular speed for stable orbits.. I assume it's the combined mass of hydrogen atoms. They might be low density, but voids are big.. The idea is that we don't know what happens inside a black hole and it's theoretically possible that on the other side there is an expanding universe instead of an actual singularity with infinite density. And so instead of saying we were "inside" a black hole it may be better to say that the universe is the inside-out side of a black hole. Highly mathematical terms here I know.. A whale is basically a fish unless you want to be a nerd about it.. It's not laziness, I'm always interested in seeing how well these tools do with real world examples.

But thank you for the benefit of the doubt.. Oops! I didn't know there was a paper attached to it. Thanks!. Dick Butkus would like a word.. I love the plots, thanks for stopping by.. The pressure inside a neutron star is roughly 1 GeV⁴ in planck units.. Inertia... Is a property of matter?

_Bill! Bill! Bill! Bill!_. > Poisson's ratio of 1/2 corresponds to incompressible matter. 

Or a negligible Young’s elastic modulus (large compliance) relative to the bulk modulus.. Not the guy you were replying to, but there’s some cool stuff.

Stuff Made Here - goes into some crazy engineering detail designing stuff that amounts to insanely over engineered knickknacks

Real Engineering - a fantastic documentary style channel with deep dives into many different objects in out day to day. 

Code Bullet - coding ASMR

NileRed - chemistry, full step by step for some insane reactions. Lots of explanation too. Check out the transparent wood video.

Thought Emporium - literal mad scientist. Grows brain, makes it play doom. Posts the process on YouTube. 

Electroboom - electrical sciences. Very entertaining. This is an understatement about the channel.. I think this was meant as a reply to a different comment? I don't address (or study, or have training in) astrophysics.. Very interesting. So how on the graph did that person know that the density’s are all similar? 

- how do you even interpret the idea of a density of a “galaxy” ?

- I also read “main sequence stars and small mass stars are not compromised of “atomic matter” and the electrons are very spread out right? So where does “atomic” end and non atomic begin ?!. PI squared is roughly g.... Black hole is the label for the boundary. Everything beyond it is forbidden.. Black holes are not per se objects. They are a phenomenon beyond which we can't observe. They "protect" the singularity within.. Yeah, for example, the lower horizontal axis goes from a radius of 10^(-40) cm to 10^50 cm.. The graph *does* have regions "allowed by gravity" and "quantum certainty"  I'll try my best as an armchair physicist to explain, any help appreciated..

**"allowed by gravity"** is the the non-brown area to the bottom-right of the "forbidden by gravity" area, including, theoretically, the area within "quantum uncertainty".  

This area is of ever decreasing density, eg "infinitely" dense black holes at top-left while something at the bottom right corner would have a huuuge size (The X axis: n x 10^**50** cm That's something n with 47 zeros km wide) but a density of (The Y axis: 1 gram divided by n with nearly 30 zero's)  

In lay terms something in that corner would be a gazillion miles wide and weigh a gazilliionth of a gram. Not dense at all.  In fact no known thing is that un-dense.

**"quantum certainty"** is the other non-brown diagonal area from the comptom limit line bottom-left up to top-right.  In this area we see tiny things like electrons (e), protons (p) and neutrons (n) just over the compton limit.  An individual electron does not have a definite position / velocity. It is a quantum thing.  

As you move upward and to the right from that line we see things of ever-increasing size (X-axis) and mass (Y-axis) such as a virus, a flea, a human and continuing on in a surprisingly narrow band of density (size vs mass) up to planets and stars, and in another band, cosmic-scale things like galaxies and superclusters.  

All these things - fleas to stars to superclusters, and anything else in the region above-right the compton limit are **not** affected by quantum uncertainty - a virus, a human or a supercluster will not suddenly quantum tunnel to a new location.. When you localize a particle in a region smaller than its Compton wavelength, you risk pair production which makes the identifying any specific particle's location ambiguous. Did you actually measure the particle's location, or did you measure an entirely new particle you made in the attempt?. I think you could think of it as "it's impossible to squeeze all of the particle's wavefunction into a region smaller than this". It's a limit on the size of the space you can constrain a particle to. The "Limitation on measurement" section of the Wikipedia article I linked is quite good.. Having trouble understanding this “inside out side” idea.. Sure 😂. Where's the spherical plucked chicken marker?. technicaly we would classify it as "kinda big" fish. Better hope that's all he wants.. Yes my apologies!. So, the diagonal bands in the middle of the diagram are bands/lines of equal density. The ratio of the logarithm of the mass to the logarithm of the volume is a constant. 

    M = (density) * (4/3) * pi * r^3

    log(M) = log(density) * log(4pi/3) * 3 * log(r)

    log(M) = C * log(r)

Where C is just all the constant terms multiplied together. 

The density of a galaxy would just be its approximate total mass divided by its total volume, if you were to draw a big shape around its stars. You could probably also measure density for some galaxies by observing how much they bend light around them. Density is always just an average - a total mass divided by a total volume. 

Main sequence stars are largely hydrogen fusing into helium. The thing is just that it’s so hot and pressurized that the electrons aren’t really bound to any particular nucleus - they apparently form a sort of plasma. But the density of this arrangement is still similar to regular matter. 

Compare that to neutron stars, where the neutrons are packed together quite densely. Not having an electric charge helps them do that - they basically squeezed out all the protons that were there keeping them apart.. If they aren’t objects then how can we say the exist!?. Ah gotcha gotcha! Thanks.. Thank you! But what about the QG area? If we had defined "allowed by gravity" and "quantum certainty" then we couldn't say definitely that it's the opposite of both *but* if we have defined "forbidden by gravity" and "quantum uncertainty" then it would make sense to assume these properties to the area. Is my thinking anyway correct?. Very cool - so in main sequence stars - we can technically say they are not comprised of “atoms” right? And in any case, main sequence has electrons related from nuclei, but neutron stars have neutrons together, and the protons and electrons all separated out?. By the way that was a beautiful explanation for the density being constant cuz the slope is constant. Didn’t even realize what I was looking at.. Seems to be that not using the term ‘object’ is leaving the possibility open that these sort of phenomenon don’t follow our understand of things that occupy space … because why must they?  If not carful with language, we might find physics conforming to linguistics rather than the other way around. An example: lots of folks were pretty confused from saying things like ‘event A and B happened at the same time,’ which hides the detail of time being relative. So … what could we be hiding from ourselves by forcing the idea of a phenomenon as an object—with all the baggage we carry around from our human or even cosmological scale understanding of what an object is?. Things can exist that aren’t objects. For example, thought or momentum.. Yes, you are correct.  That black triangle QG area is the overlap of **both** Quantum Uncertainty and Forbidden by Gravity.  Thus it being labelled "QG", ie **Quantum Gravity**.

But everything to the left of the white vertical line at left is "sub-Planckian unknown" - ie smaller than the Planck distance, way too small for us to ever be able to see / detect / infer about.

The QG area only exists on this geometrically beautiful chart by extrapolating the major two diagonals, and the beauty and patterns we see in other parts of the chart make that sort of extrapolation natural and tempting.

But it could be that below the Planck distance, whether within the QG area or in the areas above and below... well, who knows?

Maybe nothing exists at that scale of size or mass?  Maybe it's like dividing by zero?  Maybe its like the final heat death of a previous universe.  Maybe its turtles all the way down.

Quantum Gravity is an interesting topic.  Carlo Rovelli, an Italian physicist, is kinda the Stephen Hawking of QG and his book ["Reality Is Not What It Seems"](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29767627-reality-is-not-what-it-seems) is about as understandable as I've found on the topic - but still **very** mentally challenging.

Maybe have a look at these:

https://www.goodreads.com/shelf/show/quantum-gravity. They are atoms. A hydrogen ion is a perfectly valid atom. Even though it’s also just a bare proton. 

But that’s just the convention of classification we have chosen. The universe doesn’t care about that. 

The Wikipedia entry on neutron stars has a pretty descriptive explanation of the star’s structure which is worth reading: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutron_star (see the “Structure” section).

Some highlights:

> Current models indicate that matter at the surface of a neutron star is composed of ordinary atomic nuclei crushed into a solid lattice with a sea of electrons flowing through the gaps between them.

> The “atmosphere” of a neutron star is hypothesized to be at most several micrometers thick, and its dynamics are fully controlled by the neutron star’s magnetic field. Below the atmosphere one encounters a solid “crust”. This crust is extremely hard and very smooth (with maximum surface irregularities on the order of millimeters or less), due to the extreme gravitational field.

> The composition of the superdense matter in the core remains uncertain. One model describes the core as superfluid neutron-degenerate matter (mostly neutrons, with some protons and electrons). More exotic forms of matter are possible, including degenerate strange matter (containing strange quarks in addition to up and down quarks), matter containing high-energy pions and kaons in addition to neutrons,[21] or ultra-dense quark-degenerate matter.

So basically yes. The neutron star core pushes out all the protons and electrons, and possibly allows for large scale-structure composed of more exotic hadrons (different groupings of quarks, basically), or even possibly just a “gas” made of quarks.. Well said! So let us not call it an object. But certainly it’s not some inert region. What should we call it? How would you personally classify it. For fun. Just curious bae.. Whoa. That was unexpected however this sidesteps the issue. If a point in space is affecting other points, isn’t that alone evidence that it is an object?. Thank you again kind stranger, I think I see it now more clearly. But why is black holes inside “gravity doesn’t allow it” among other things?! These things are real so why would they be inside “gravity doesn’t allow it”. I’d say a “point in space” is more akin to a conceptual thing like those others I mentioned than an object. But these aren’t well-defined words.

What u/rexpup meant by “not per se objects” is this: a black hole is a _border_ of a region. Like all borders, it’s just a line on a map. The defining physical difference you’ll find crossing that border is simply that you can’t get back out. Nor can light. That’s why it is black; all the light that would get emitted just curves back in because of the gravity.

There are other effects _around_ there, like spaghetti-fication, tidal forces, plasma radiation, etc., but those happen on a gradient from well outside that border, across it, and continuing on the inside (or so we theorize, but we can’t see). And somewhere inside is the singularity. The singularity _is_ an actual, super-dense object.

In the diagram, black holes aren’t _in_ the “forbidden by gravity” region. Rather, they _are_ that line, that border, on the diagram as in reality.. Black Holes are not *inside* the forbidden area - just some labels are. I think that black holes label is **for the line** separating normal gravity from the forbidden area.

Black Holes are a series of dots and ranges (of different sizes & masses) right **on the line** between "normal gravity" like the pink area and the forbidden area.

Look closely and near the words "black holes" at the left, beside is a dot with a line labelling it "smallest observable PBH".  That would be the smallest mass ~~possible/potential(?)~~ Primordial Black Holes.

The size of objects is the X-axis increasing from left to right, so as you move along that line, up to the right you then see "3K BH (Black Holes) **on the line**.  Further up, a label for a range along the line "stellar mass BH" and further up another range "SMBH" ("Some More Black Holes", lol, I don't know... probably "Stellar Mass Black Holes" abbreviated).  

Black Holes are found with different sizes, so they are spread along the left-right X-axis from microscopic-size to way bigger than stars, and these ever larger black holes are also ever more massive and so move higher on the Y-axis (mass).  But they all exist ON the black-hole boundary line where they have the highest mass/density before gravity goes weird.  Anything denser is apparently forbidden by gravity.. So the singularity is a real object but the black hole is not an object but a boundary? Is that correct (assuming you believe the singularity is more than just a data set inputted into a function that makes the function spit out none sense).. Right but even a border of a region takes up space no? I’m having a VERY hard time accepting that a black hole is not an object based on the idea that an object takes up “space”.. Thank u for clearing that up for me! I now can make sense of the graph a lot better. I appreciate your kindness.. SMBH = Supermassive Black Holes. [deleted]. Well, as you point out, we don’t know for sure because we can’t see, but yeah, I’d call the singularity an object. To be honest, I just use “black hole” synonymously with “singularity” in most cases where I’d need either word. But sometimes you need to draw a distinction, like in this thread.. Like I said, a border is just a line on a map. It’s like where the ocean meets the air. The area within the black hole/border/event horizon/Schwartzchild radius is underwater; the area outside is the air. What space does that border between water and air take up?

I say “underwater” and “air”, but those are two different things, but the space inside a black hole is just like the space outside (we theorize), except you can’t leave. Whether that counts as an object is up to you. The region does take up space, sure, it’s got a radius and all, but it isn’t distinct between the inside and outside like water or air are.. Thank you. Editted. Learn something new every day.. What’s ironic to me is I have always thought of everything except the singularity as an object as apparently the singularity isn’t an object but simply the result of using general relativity where it shain’t be used! At least that’s what a professor said on /askphysics. I see what you did there! “Where the ocean meets the air” 😂 I think I agree with you now. I was thinking initially that having a radius means taking up space but that’s just a slight of hand as far as I see it now. Thanks for clearing that up! New 50p coins out this year in the United Kingdom, celebrating the legacy of Sir Isaac Newton.. nan. OK, now I want all my cash to look like this.. A lovely design and I applaud any effort to remind people of science in day to day life but... the mint have already celebrated Newton with the old £1 note but have neglected the wealth of British scientists involved in equally fundamental physics.

Give Maxwell, Heaviside and Faraday a coin! Put the Dirac equation on a coin! QED has made the most accurate predictions of how Nature behaves, ever! Tell people! Put Higgs and spontaneous symmetry breaking on a coin! 
    
Quantum Mechanics needs to be celebrated more and we need to do more to get rid of the conception people have that it's about paradoxical cats and high concept thought experiments.. Can....can I order some here in the us?. I can't remember the last time I saw a normal 50p.. Can't wait until we celebrate science like this in the u.s.! Should be any day now. Right? Right... . Neat! How can I get some of these in America?. Even more appropriate considering Newton worked for the mint stone point during his life. Source: The Royal Mint: (https://www.facebook.com/theroyalmint/photos/a.261229033951683.59863.197613716979882/1481795811894993/?type=3&theater). I wish we had constant diameter coins in Aussie. I fucking want one. Also make more with different scientists. Then give me one of those too. I think people severly underestimate the gravity of well minted coins.. It's going to bother me that the sun isn't at a focus of the ellipse.. 50 Pence will be celebrating 

https://youtu.be/G7vjtc41HSw. Wasn't Newton's dying legacy being the Lord High Executioner for the Royal Mint responsible for executing many people for the crime of counterfeiting? . I think it's awesome how your country recognizes science, even respects it; enough so to put it on your currency. Signed, Embarrassed American. . We've got [Rutherford on our 100s](http://www.rbnz.govt.nz/-/media/ReserveBank/Images/Notes%20and%20coins/Index%20files/nzbanknotes-withnew5and10.jpg?la=en&hash=2543235D4F1DC3BA80B3C1249AC8F0B5498C4B57). . A few weeks ago my parents came back from vacation in the UK. They brought the standard souvenirs: Model of parliment, a little bulldog statue...

The real prize though is when they emptied their change onto the table. I'd never seen such a cool design like on the 2 pound coin. The engraving on the side of the coin is really cool.. That's awesome. Random tidbit, Newton was appointed the master of the mint during his later life, and put people to death for counterfeiting.. Awesome, I feel compelled to get some and I'm neither American nor a coin collector. . Mike Pence's rap name.. I love that the coin is 7-sided. Sir Issac Newton was enthralled with the number 7, as he believed it had special meaning due to its promenance in the Bible.

I remember reading that Newton even "added" the Indigo in the rainbow so that it had seven colours instead of six.

https://blog.oup.com/2014/07/ten-myths-about-isaac-newton/

http://www.newtonproject.ox.ac.uk/view/texts/normalized/THEM00270. 50 Pences?!

We don't even want the one elected here!. I will gladly pay someone to send me a few of these.. Wonder if this new coin design was dropped from a height next to an older 50p coin would it hit the floor at the same time as the older one?

PS is looks great.. need to get one.. As a numismatic (currency collector) I'll be keeping an eye out for one, next time I'm over in blighty. Brit here, I'm just so relieved that we're finally returning to coins with symmetrical designs on them. . mmmm grime will stuck coi nice in those grooves . Damn, they are nice. And a worthy person to celebrate too.. Celebrate by dropping one on the floor!. Why the cropped design tho. 

I love it! Very contemporary . Forgive me if for not knowing but what is this design actually depicting? . Damn, those are gorgeous. I'll definintely be keeping hold of one.. will one of you brit bros send me one?  Also, some champagne orange marmalade, my mom is nuts for that stuff.. That's actually really nice looking. . Is there an easy way to get one of these in the US? They look awesome.. Amazing concept. Great! I collect special 50p's :). Can I give someone a freedom dollar for one of these. They look super cool. . I'd love one of these but I'm not in Europe :(. it's more than a little annoying they did not add ridged edges. Don't *all* British coins celebrate the legacy of Sir Isaac Newton?. putting political figures on money has always been stupid as it always causes arguments no one needs to have. I wish here in america we would honor more americans that have nothing to do with the left/right split in this country. Wow, can't believe nobody noticed the satanic imagery.. How do I gey one? I am from Canada.. If anyone would send me one I will send them something they would like in return or some kind of cool surprise. . When do they drop?. I need some of these.  How can I get a few in the States?. I need that coin. Because collector.. Will someone send me one? Please?. I need a nice Brit friend to please send me one in California . Bruh what about when he dicked over Leibniz?. This isn't a big deal, at least it hasn't really affected me yet. 

But I'm sure that the gravity of the situation will soon hit me. . If it didn't have the queen on the back, I would find a pendant for it.... speaking of which who here can't wait for the queen to stop being on 10% of the worlds coins ? Seriously I'm sick of seeing a beautiful new coin only to find out she's on the back.... for like 50 fucking years.. Sir Isa-who-who?. You mean the guy who STOLE calculus???. Looks pretty bad, like the coin is all scratched up. It's cool but I just think that all money should have numbers on them so that people new to the country will know how much each coin is worth without having to know the language of the area. US currency is the worst at this, not only do the coins not have numbers on them, they usually don't have words which relate to numbers either, a quarter being the exception, I mean seriously even if you're English, Australian or Canadian, someone hands you a coin and it just says "nickel" on it, how are you supposed to know how much that's worth?. They look awful.. Considering how he ran the mint, perhaps a hung man would be a fitting tribute?

Newton's had his accolades, they should have done Dirac.. I have a renewed interest in physics stuff because of the History channel serie Genius!. [TIL](http://jqtil.blogspot.co.uk/2012/03/isaac-newton-was-jerk.html).. Oh. He certainly deserves the honor. Even if all he did was the discovery of mavity.. Yeah, that shit is so cash.. > the mint have already celebrated Newton with the old £1 note

And the current £2 coin, which has "STANDING ON THE SHOULDERS OF GIANTS" inscribed on the edge.

(Yes, the metaphor doesn't originate with Newton, but he certainly popularised it in English, and the Mint acknowledges that it was intended to honour Newton in particular.)

I don't think the attention comes simply because he is more recognised by the public than other British physicists, though - it *might* have something to do with Newton having been Master of the Mint for 27 years (and Warden of the Mint for four years before that).. [Faraday](http://www.worldbanknotescoins.com/2015/05/england-20-pound-sterling-note-1993-michael-faraday.html) has appeared on the £20, [James Watt](https://www.hw.ac.uk/about/news/archive/2011/james-watt-feature-new-bank-note.htm) on the £50, and [Charles Darwin](https://santitafarella.files.wordpress.com/2008/08/100_2684.jpg) on the £10. 

. >Give Maxwell, Heaviside and Faraday a coin!

It'd be humorous to see Robert Hooke on a coin or note. Someone should start a petition. . I think the favoritism is probably due to Newton's personal involvement with the Mint.. Put Daniel Waterhouse on a coin!. I don't know, it'd be quite a step to put Heaviside on a coin. . A Faraday cage composed of Faraday coins. The possibilities..... Maybe it's because Isaac Newton is a little more well known? I mean not like those other names aren't common because I completely understand where you're coming from, but just a thought.. The trouble with a quantum coin is that you could never be sure how much it's worth. . Heaviside is criminally underappreciated, If I had to solve 20 equations every time I needed to solve a EM question.... Turing, anyone?  I mean, now that he's been officially pardoned...sure, he's no physicist, but he's no less important in the history of scientific advancement.. We might run out of coins pretty soon then. Yeah, put Heaviside's formula into circulation (maybe besides Snell's formula): c := 1/sqrt(εμ).  It'll shut the naive relativists up.

The author of [FFmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/download.html) has a list of scientific greats for version names the mint could glean off.. Fuck me. Top comment complaining. Reddit is only happy when it's not happy. . I'll send you one when they come out if you want mate.. http://www.royalmint.com/shop/d/d17com. My friend works for a division of the royal mint, she says they can ship internationally by special request but it is a 2 man department so guess there hasn't been high demand over seas. Enquiries@westminstercollection.com is the place to ask . I'll join you in trying to get one too, beautiful coin! . I was just going to ask the same thing. If only the US respected science as much as we trust in god.... r/britishproblems. Montana just elected a guy who believes we should remove the retirement age because Noah was still working when he was 600.

So, no. . Ben Franklin is on the 100.  Granted he doesn't compare to Newton, but who does?. If only someone put up the Benjamins.. Didn't you have Feynman and some Feynman diagrams on some notes?

Quick edit:  It was a stamp.  [Link!](https://www.mysticstamp.com/pictures/stamps_default/USA-3909.jpg). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_research_and_development_spending

Quit complaining about 'celebration' and just look at the numbers. . Yeah the fact that the US funds 50% of the worlds scientific research means nothing amirite?! We need to mint some science coins to get on Britains level. /facepalm. [deleted]. Absolutely. I understand is down a $0.50 coin commemorating Noah's Ark or the first female US president.. > Can't wait until we celebrate science like this in the u.s.! 

[You know Newton was a raging Theist right?](https://rsc.byu.edu/archived/converging-paths-truth/brief-survey-sir-isaac-newtons-views-religion)

. Hi it's me, your bro. Send me $50 and I'll send you 10. I'm sure you can just hit an exchange . I was thinking the same! I guess I need to make friends . /r/Physics/comments/6dfl3c/new_50p_coins_out_this_year_in_the_united_kingdom/di2s37q/

Apparently the Mint has a two-person office that just does this.. [deleted]. Not just some point, the last third of his life.. [deleted]. Except as a curiosity, why do we want constant-diameter coins? Also, do circular coins count?. I wish we did too :(

The new £1 coins released this year are dodecagonal like your 50c coin. They wanted a neat alternation between milled and non-milled edges, so they went with an even number of sides despite objections.. It's going to encourage amateur experimentation of dropping 50p coins from tall buildings onto the heads of unsuspecting pedestrians. . I see what you did there. . >[**50 Pence - In Da Pub [3:42]**](http://youtu.be/G7vjtc41HSw)

>>funny 50 pence mic take of 50 cent in da club

> [*^azzere2k7*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfMG7QoKt4o6IqFpHRRji-g) ^in ^Music

>*^174,367 ^views ^since ^Feb ^2008*

[^bot ^info](/r/youtubefactsbot/wiki/index). Plenty of US quarters honor science. See the state quarters for Florida, Ohio, and North Carolina. The moon landings on are on our passports. 

The rest pay homage to America's natural beauty, our wildlife, and exploration. What's wrong with those?
. [deleted]. It's more like 65 years.

I'm also indifferent.. [deleted]. Nickels say "five cents".... Newton is much more publicly known than Dirac though. Most people know sir Isaac Newton, few know of Paul. I'm not commenting on their contributions or relevancy to physics, just that Isaac Newton is more of an icon.. [deleted]. So he is somehow still impacting the mint?

That's​ spooky action from a distant past. . Also the 'shoulders of giants' quote was made to marginalized the contributions to science of a peer of his who happened to be a dwarf (so I've been told). The Darwin note is one of my favourites, it's a shame we'll be seeing less of them soon. . It's hard to believe that piece of paper weighs 50 pounds!. Darwin also has a limited special 50p coin.. Non UK citizen here, how can I get these wonderfull commemorative coins and notes?. There are no surviving likenesses of Hooke from his lifetime (although there are later portraits based solely on descriptions of his appearance).

The Royal Society *used* to have a portrait of him, but a few years after his death, it went missing while the society was moving to new premises. Newton was the President of the Royal Society at the time, and was known to hold a grudge against Hooke, giving rise to persistent speculation that he might have known what became of his last likeness.. And make the coin very slightly heavier than the last one. How about to a friend in Canada? Please oh please oh please . Charge 51p plus shipping and make millions!. Can I sign up for this too? pretty please. Sign me up mate. In all honesty, it's cheaper to get a Brut to send one over. Around £2, if you include the value of the coin.. W  wat. Lol, that is outstanding. 

. Source? That's hilarious and awful . I just got a 7/10 on a physics subject in the first year of my BSc so I'd say I'm getting pretty close. Euler?. Einstein.  Feynman sorta.. Galileo does. Galileo was the first modern experimental physicist.. Διόφαντος. Maybe some Benjamin's for some Feynmans?. How about instead, you quit acquiescing to mediocrity and start to pay attention to the brain drain currently taking place in the u.s. https://venturebeat.com/2017/02/24/the-trump-effect-the-u-s-is-heading-for-a-tech-brain-drain/. Oh I get it. The facepalm is to block you from paying attention to what's currently happening to scientific research and funding in the u.s. right now. I'm sure Trump, his administration and senators like Greg Giangorte are gonna make us a shiny beacon of scientific advancement! /Fuckinginsanefacepalm . How many Britains?

Also "venturebeast" isn't a thing.. Awwww. Sorry you thought that was anti-us. :( Should I make it anti Christan too and just round it out for ya?. Don't forget alchemist. . Thanks to Newton's law I could at last defeat the first cause argument of theism to confute it: https://medium.com/@alysdexia/kristians-dont-exist-59f4730f6dea#.e1wv9jy1n (last link).. [deleted]. They will never give you coins, only notes.. And if you dig a little deeper, you'll see the zeal with which he prosecuted counterfeiters.  . Have you ever tried to pay a bar tab with a kangaroo?

Because that's a thing you can totally do in Australia.. They're useful because they roll just like cylindrical coins would. Also it doesn't matter where you measure the diameter since it's always the same value. Good for coin counting and vending machines and the like.. I believe the new £1 are constant diameter as well, it's just that there are enough sides that the curve is very slight
. Yeah it was so subtle.. Nothing's wrong with that at all, I think the state quarters are great, as well as the new coins the mint has been releasing steadily since shortly after the state quarter program started, I guess I was being facetious about the whole science thing, hinting at the fact that the U.K. Government has excepted science for what it is. Unlike our current US administration. . I concur ;). I'm sick of seeing it, I would prefer countries use animals or landscapes personally.. Actually I have never seen one before. Stop trying to make 'Fetch' happen.  
It's not gonna happen.. we're well in his future lightcone. > That's​ spooky action from a distant past. 

The Royal Mint was founded in 886 AD, so the 1720s are basically recent history for them.

Also, although the Master of the Mint was often treated as a ceremonial position, Newton took it seriously enough that he retired from his academic duties at Cambridge. Quite apart from his contributions to the sciences, he's one of the more memorable figures in the Mint's history.. No, it was a jab at Liebniz who was also working on calculus at the time, and Newton was recognized first. Liebniz was also average height.. He used it in a letter to Robert Hooke, and it has been claimed that he intended it as a reference to Hooke's hunchback. Newton was well-known to dislike Hooke, having been greatly offended by the latter's criticisms of his optical theories and a dispute over the priority of elements of gravitational theory.

However, it's almost certainly a misreading, because the letter was written before all that, when the two men were by all accounts still on friendly terms.. Yes. It's a really beautiful note. The image I linked to doesn't do it justice.. Bloody colonials and their imperial system. The ones I linked to are standard UK banknotes, not commemorative issues. However, only the James Watt £50 is current issue.

You can probably get these notes in good, circulated condition for not much more than their face value on Ebay. 

[Edit: The Darwin £10 is in circulation too.]. It still exists, with the only change being to the moniker "Hugh Jass". No probs at all! I have no idea how many they're minting and how common they'll be but if they're like all the rest of all the collectable 50 pence pieces, I'll come across one soon enough and drop you a pm for postage details. It is now firmly ingrained in my mind after writing this that when I come across one, I WILL remember! 

Sorry to anyone else but I'm only going to send to /u/talvar and  /u/pedone1.  I'm sure you can find another agreeable Brit though!! I think there's a couple of us.... undoubtedly, but not everyone knows a friendly Brit who is willing, or will remember to send it out come September. He also beat the shit out of a journalist on election day and still won.. Yes. His justification is that Noah was working to build a boat to fit every animal in the world on at the age of 600.. Well done! I'm proud of you!. No, I am not buying into the Trump sensationalism. The US still poaches and pays the top scientists. The institutions are still incredibly strong. You vastly overestimate the president's influence. You think funding is hard to come by in the US? Try elsewhere, where multi-million dollar grants for a single lab/professor aren't even in the conversation, where multi-billion dollar endowments for universities aren't a thing either. . They don't need to "make us" we already are THE beacon of scientific advancement by any real measure (other than number of science-coins I guess). Sure, it's just as unrelated and pretentious so why not.. If this is a joke im not getting it.

Also, the £ sign goes before.. Ok well I went on the website and they just asked that I 
"Register my interest"
And I did it wasn't easy. *I want to believe*.. > they roll just like cylindrical coins would

What do you mean by this? The centre of mass will bob up and down if you roll them.

And why not use cylindrical coins? Is it for the purposes of having different shapes, so that they can more easily be distinguished from each other?. The shape of constant-width coins like the 50p is such that each side is a circular arc with its centre at the opposing corner. The new pound coin could have been constant-diameter if they had used 11 or 13 sides.

But they have 12 sides, and 12 is an even number. Opposite each corner of the new pound coin is another corner.

The coin varies in width between 23.03 and 23.43 mm. The Mint [lists the diameter as 23.43mm, clarifying that this is "the maximum diameter (point to point)"](https://www.thenewpoundcoin.com).

[This diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Construction_triangle_Reuleaux.svg) is probably the simplest way to show the construction of such a shape, and why it requires an odd number of sides.. There is enough power afforded to the state and private levels such that the administration doesn't have much a positive/negative effect, IMO. Obama, for example was very much pro-science, but he never achieved his goals for R&D spending. The president doesn't completely control it. 

So what I am saying is trust the system of checks and balances. We have a lot of absurd lawmakers, but ultimately it's because they *can* be absurd and ridiculous. The system as a whole still works out at the end. 

But yes, having your leaders/figureheads support science is nice. . Wait, how many stone is that?. Thank you. I work in a supermarket, I'd be happy to collect a few up from there to send to people.  

Edit: had a few requests, not really able to take any more.. Thanks! I'll keep my eyes open for any cool coins over here for you :) . I got a friend - I’m writing her now!. Thank you good sir/ma'am. Some people who had advance voted for him wanted to change their vote. But also, according to a Fox reporter, some people who voted for his opponent wanted to change their vote too. So, interesting times.. I agree that it's sensationalism but not because Trump's budget wouldn't devastate scientific research funding with across the board cuts but because even the Congress critters are stupid enough to pass his budget. Replacing scientific advisor positions with political appointees and industry representatives as his administration has done is still worth pointing out and protesting though.. https://venturebeat.com/2017/02/24/the-trump-effect-the-u-s-is-heading-for-a-tech-brain-drain/

I could link to many other articles if you'd like. Otherwise, sure. Yeah, we're the beacon... . My bad. Let me get back on track. U.S.A! U.S.A! Maga! Let me know if that brought back your America boner. . Shapes of constant width roll smoothly, just like cylinders. [Numberphile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cUCSSJwO3GU) did a nice video on them. You can only do it with odd sided shapes, hence the comment below regarding the new £1 coins which are even sided.

Different shapes are good for counterfeit prevention and accessibility reasons (blind people naturally find it easier if the coins have different shapes).. > The centre of mass will bob up and down if you roll them.

The center of mass will move up and down, so you can't use them as a wheel with an axle or you'll have a bumpy ride. But you could use them as ball bearings.. Wow TIL! 

Is there a diagram out there showing the 12? It would be a mess but . >But yes, having your leaders/figureheads support science is nice. 

It's the exact opposite of nice < niais < nescius := not-skiilled.. Stone? Stone?! Nothing here but our lovely kilogram, yes yes!. If you could, I'd very much like one.. Im surprised there isn't a website for this. I would love one of those coins, they look amazing. (US redditor). It says Mark.. Please, anything other than an opinion piece from "venturebeast". Why are you so jealous of the US?. Right, because not hating my country is equivalent to being blindly patriotic. Stop embarassing yourself dude.. > Shapes of constant width roll smoothly

Well, if you mean that you can squeeze them between two planes, I agree. Rolling down a slope, they would still bob, like any non-circular shape.. Exactly how I use my coins!. As I have been trying to say, there's no way to extend that to a (regular) 12-sided shape, because 12 is an even number.

The new pound is simply a regular dodecagon with slightly rounded corners.. I think you guys lost the kilogram in Brexit.. I'll have a look over the next week or so, see if we get any in. I'll keep a reminder on my phone, but if I don't get back to you within a couple of weeks drop me a message. You can get the full set on the Royal Mint website, people also have them for sale on eBay for about £20. Much cheaper to get one sent over.. That what's happening here? Tell me more. . Oh, I missed the part where I was hating my country. Now I'm actually embarrassed. Thanks!. They don't bob. That's literally the whole point.

You can't put an axle through them because their centres will bob relative to the ground, but the shape as a whole does not bob.. Alright cool, thanks so much.. If you could send me one, that would be much appreciated. :). > Royal Mint website

£195 plus delivery. What is that – $19.50 plus delivery?

. > You can't put an axle through them because their centres will bob relative to the ground

That's what I mean. The centre of mass bobs, so if you rolled them fast enough, they would start to jump. Even before that, they exert a non-constant force on the surface they are rolling on. That's what I would call _un-smooth_ rolling.. Added you to the list, might be a week or so at the minimum.. $250 USD.. If you want to define smoothness like that fine. It's a completely and utterly irrelevant definition when considering why they're useful, however, since they roll in enclosed spaces. I'm not going to argue semantics, it's a complete waste of time. Let's call what I mean 'even motion' instead. Nobel Prize in Physics 2019. This time for #Cosmos. nan. What I thought was mildly interesting was that the award was split by contribution, not by person. So Peebles earned 1/2 the award for his contribution, while Mayor and Queloz each earned 1/4 (adding to 1/2 for their contribution), rather than each earning 1/3 the award. It makes sense once you think about giving the award with respect to the importance of the contributions, but it’s not initially intuitive if you just hear/see the names.. The man on the right is transparent.

Seriously though, as an astronomer this is great!. Is this the first time the nobel prize has been split not just between people or groups but between entire fields? Cosmology and exoplanets are pretty distinct.. To be awarded the nobel prize in physics is a tremendous honor, but can someone please explain to me why discovering an exoplanet is considered important in their field (please don’t bash me, I am but an ignorant college freshman)? We’ve discovered exoplanets already, and so I’m not 100% sure as to how the discovery here helps progress our understanding of the world. To me, taking a picture of a black hole is significantly more “impactful” or “impressive” (Although I think the reason why Bouman and her image of a black hole wasn’t considered was due to the application process).. These guys are dynomite in my book.. Maybe they should have announced Peebles twice. This! Thank you for expanding the modern understanding of the universe! Congratulations to the Nobel prize winners. I hope humanity can continue pushing forward with tolerance and a open mind.. [deleted]. woah my physics professor just showed thatexact image to us yesterday. Congratulation. wOw, ThEy’Re aLl WHiTe. [removed]. Was their research deserving of this though?. Didier speaks way too loudly. What happened to the Black holes. What about Sheldon and Amy?. I know they did the same thing last year, with Mourou and Strickland splitting half of the prize for Chirped Pules Amplification and... someone else getting the other half for optical tweezers. Not sure how common it is throughout the history of the prizes, though.. As far as I know it's always like this. it's not really contribution. the award was given half for cosmology, half for exoplanets. but two people had to split the exoplanet award. It is initially intuitive as every article I’ve seen says the award was given to Peebles and also in part to Mayor and Queloz. 

It’s very different than saying award to Peebles, Mayor, and Queloz. 

Just my take on it, I didn’t know they gave 1/4 to Mayor and Queloz until this post but I had the suspicion Peebles had the greater contribution from the articles I’ve read regarding who was awarded.. No.
> The Nobel Prize in Physics 1978 was divided, one half awarded to Pyotr Leonidovich Kapitsa "for his basic inventions and discoveries in the area of low-temperature physics", the other half jointly to Arno Allan Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson "for their discovery of cosmic microwave background radiation.". [deleted]. It was the first discovery of an exoplanet around a main sequence star. They found it in 1995.. >Bouman and her image of a black hole

Despite the press, the image actually came from the joint effort of the collaboration and not from Bouman alone.

From an EHT astronomer's [twitter](https://twitter.com/SaraIssaoun/status/1116304522660519936).

>There are more of us. Katie's algorithm, despite the media's stance, was not used to produce this image. There were three algorithms used and combined to form the final image, and a team of 40 scientists part of that aspect of the project (including myself and more women).

>Katie was one of the leads of this aspect of the project, together with four other people, here are their names: Andrew Chael, Kazunori Akiyama, Michael D. Johnson and Jose L. Gomez. This is a group effort, there is no one person who made this happen.

[And a screenshot from Bouman's facebook clarifying that there was no one algorithm or person who produced the image](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/D34iM1xWwAAvSGh.jpg).. Professional physicist here. While I agree a prize for this discovery is deserved, id actually like to hear people’s opinion on this as well. No new physics was discovered by the discovery of that planet (if I’m being even slightly uncharitable). Can Eg an N body simulation or complexity person set me straight?. Queloz is a youngin by Nobel standards. Fuck 2019. Not yet, but they released a paper last week where they showed how you can divide by a banana so I think they are close.. Dude wut. Do you know what division is...?. the nobel is rarely awarded for discoveries made in the same year or even the same decade.. Very common. Ah interesting. Thanks!. This makes *so* much more sense.  Thank you.. Sorry, I just used “Bouman,” as she was the lead person on that project I think. What did the comment say before it was deleted?. I mean it’s one banana, Michael. How much could it divide, *ten dollars?*. may i please have a link?. have they learned how to divide by zero now i think that deserves a nobel prize. Yes i do now do you know what 0 is?. Oh ok, thanks for the info😀. But what if you're dead then?. Bouman is not the lead, the PI of EHT is Shep Doeleman.. It's a joke about a division by a zero.. By definition is undefined. It’s not something that can be learned. Literally just undefined under our mathematical axioms. In that sense it’s already been figured out

It’s like asking if they figured out what the word fjhydhrn means in english yet. Nobel prize for what, anyway?. Multiplication by zero is not injective. By definition there is no inverse (which would be dividing by zero). Nothing.. They don't award it posthumously so you're screwed haha. There's a buynch of people who "should" have gotten a Nobel (George Sudarshan, definitely John Von Neumann who is basically the closest thing to Newton in modern times) but it's important to remember that even though it's a great honor it's really just that it's a public honor. These people are revered in their field already and if you get to this point you aren't doing it for the prize.. hahaha lol thats funny XD. oh but i dont believe it has and i feel like that is completely different because you can literally give that word meaning whereas with math its usually something certain. could you get one for math? id consider it advancements in math but like all math this ties in to physics as well because if im not mistaken then this could actually prove hawkings original theory correct about what happens when things go into black holes. im actually so sad that stephen hawkings died i feel like he had so much more potential if given the right information aaaaand also if this IS correct then it could possibly help us rewrite einsteins theories of relativity to what i believe is more correct since there are also particles in the universe that do travel faster than the speed of light. exactly now i have a hypothesis that states that if anything is divided by nothing then the number simply ceases to exist anymore like poof erased from existence gone bye bye its gone its dead nothing literally erase the number because it might have some effect on the whole equation if you add a placeholder 0 there. What is the meaning of that word then?

Can you give me a definition of it? Can you prove that definition (say in a dictionary)?

Usually something certain =/= always certain especially in the case of n/0

You’re trying to say that because you feel a certain way, that that means there’s a solution?

Let’s examine the actual case

Lets take 3/0 = x

This means that 0 \* x = 3

Anything times 0 = 0 though, unless you disagree?

You cannot find a solution for x. x is undefined, because there is absolutely no number that solves that equation.

If you’re trolling, please stop because everyone is trying to be nice by helping you understand something that is pretty basic. You’re wasting everyone’s time if you’re just trolling, and it does nothing to benefit you either. This is mathematically *proven* which means you cannot ever find a contradiction to this idea, no matter what. Either way i feel really bad for you, whether you cannot grasp such a simple idea, or your life has come to the point where this is the best use of your time.

Have a nice night. Look up the fields medal. There is no such thing as a Nobel prize for mathematics. There's Fields medals for maths. And being "successful in dividing by zero" would not prove any physical theory. To prove a theory means something different, you need experiments for that.

Note that I used quotation marks above. I can successfully divide by zero right now. You can do that, too. Just decide what the outcome is and then build a new mathematic around the concept. That's the power of abstraction and, ultimately, of mathematics.. When did we ever find a faster-than-light particle besides that one from about a decade ago that turned out to be a measurement error?. Here’s why it doesn’t work: https://youtu.be/BRRolKTlF6Q

It’s not that you can’t divide by zero, it’s that it’s undefined.. its anything you want it to be how can a new word be found in the dictionary if it hasnt been discovered? and i think that that is wrong math is always going to be right but it can be corrected just like checking your work this is the best use of my time because i have been a science nerd since very young \^-\^ and likewise i hope you sleep well. woah thats cool i never knew this existed lol. cool thanks actually this is quite helpful and thanks for being supportive i appreciate that \^-\^ and no math will never prove any physical theory alone it requires some sort of science to build upon it. well it does seem that youre right about that one i was going to bring up the neutrino is faster than light argument but it seems like the evidence is pointing the other way. However the concept of particles moving faster than light is not so far fetched either. I just used the same idea that Einstein used to to prove his relativity. all you have to do is think of being on that same train that einstein was on and watch the clock go. if you start traveling faster than the speed of light then you start seeing the clock go backwards because you start viewing older light and essentially you start going back in time.. wait but why cant you just say the answer is negative infinity or positive infinity. that is basically stated in the simpler version of the math when the second guy that came on said that 20/0 is going to go on infinitely. the only way to deduce if its positive or negative is with the sign in the front. so therefore in a sense there is no answer and the number could be discarded. You’re not a very good science nerd completely disregarding the rules of mathematics, sorry

And the word has been discovered i just discovered it. And it doesn’t have an established meaning. As i hope you would know, this analogy is not perfect, it’s just the best way to get the idea across to someone like you usually.

Math doesn’t care what you feel, you should actually study it if you want to be considered a science nerd. ...and the Abel Prize? The Wolf prize?. I mean math can prove lots of things about a theory, but yes it can never prove the theory's existence in nature. Einstein's thought experiment was part of what sparked him to work on special relativity; I don't think anyone considers it as part of a proof for it. Your idea does sound interesting, and I find it intuitively easy to understand; but it violates the invariability of the speed of light which IIRC has been experimentally shown to be true.. > wait but why cant you just say the answer is negative infinity or positive infinity.

Watch the video. You can’t call it that because it’s incorrect.. now the only question i have is what to do with the negative and positive sign. since i believe there is no number there the negative/positive sign should be discarded as well btw i love the physics channel sixsymbols they have its so cool. science strives off of the thirst for knowlege in my opinion and the things that have been established have been established by a community which can change its mind depending on new evidence and if it is valid. Math will always be the same but will you always get 100% on your test? and also language is its own thing i can make up a word too just as you have and i could  also give it its own meaning as well aaaaalso im not disregarding the rules of math i am disagreeing with them. well i dont know about that one yet im going to have to find more compelling evidence to prove that one but there is also the tachyon that people neglect maybe there might be evidence there in order to prove that something is faster than the speed of light also people say that the graviton is also faster than the speed of light and perhaps if my hypothesis is correct then it might be able to prove that these particles actually exist. thats what they called it which is why im using it also im just saying that you will get an infinite answer therefore there is no answer making it nothing. You do nothing with the signs because there is no answer but undefined.. You seem to not be thirsty for knowledge but rather disagreeing (aka disregarding) proven facts

Proofs will never be disproven as long as they are proven correctly, which div by 0 is

Focus on things that don’t have proofs

If you disagree with the rules of mathematics then you aren’t making anything useful and you’re still just wasting everyone’s time

You should try actually learning from people who know more than you, you sound like a flat earther

If you’re going to be like this, please stop visiting science and math forums. This is for people who are actually trying to learn and discuss reasonably, which you are not being. A good scientist is willing to change their mind in the face of evidence, which you clearly do not do. Tachyons are just a hypothetical concept, so there's really no point in seriously thinking about them unless there's substantial reason to think that they exist. Where did you hear that gravitons move faster than light? I'm truly curious to look at the reasoning behind the conclusion that they do. Can you provide a source?. You won’t get an infinite answer. You essentially get 4 asymptotes. You can’t have 4 answers. So it’s undefined. The answer is not “nothing”, it’s not knowable because of a lack of information.

Nothing is fundamentally different than unknown.. but a flat eather will still get results even if hes wrong hehehe in my opinion it is still a thirst for knowlege its just going to be harder to attain because people are turned off to the idea of change. If i am proven right then i already have things that i would like to touch at either way every scientist is a mathmatician first and then after that you can choose what you want to do with the new knowlege that you have attained of course if it is right. that gravitons move faster than light i herd it by word of mouth when i was going to college i forgot who said it but like tachyons gravitons are also only a theoretical concept for now until more compelling evidence arises. You won’t be proven right, you’re already proven wrong and trying to deny it. Go into politics instead. says you bro i will not be proven wrong yet until i quit following my passion on my own however i will not stop talking about this to people who are interested in what i have to say and as long as I hold my own i will never be thrown down unless i either accept that what im saying is wrong or i quit but i havnt done either so im in the clear lol btw this is not discussion of science or math youre it feels like youre just trying to bring my spirits down without anything else to refute my idea. I already showed you the mathematical reason why you’re wrong

Do you know what the scientific method is?. [deleted]. yeah and im still stuck at data analysis because i dont believe you. i dont care enough about language to use correct punctuation and i know what i have to say if you want me to say it again i will there isnt much too it. [deleted]. there will always be someone who will listen to what i have to say i just have to be patient. [deleted]. I feel like talking to people is one of the most effective ways to pass on information. if no one is worth talking to then i dont think social media would be a thing Nobel Prize in Physics 2022. nan. "The 2022 Nobel Prize laureates in physics have conducted groundbreaking experiments using entangled quantum states, where two particles behave like a single unit even when they are separated. The results have cleared the way for new technology based upon quantum information.

Anton Zeilinger researched entangled quantum states. His research group has demonstrated a phenomenon called quantum teleportation, which makes it possible to move a quantum state from one particle to one at a distance.

Alain Aspect developed a setup to close an important loophole. He was able to switch the measurement settings after an entangled pair had left its source, so the setting that existed when they were emitted could not affect the result.

John Clauser built an apparatus that emitted two entangled photons at a time, each towards a filter that tested their polarisation. The result was a clear violation of a Bell inequality and agreed with the predictions of quantum mechanics."

[More from source](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2022/popular-information/)

[Paper](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2022/10/advanced-physicsprize2022.pdf). Oida, Anton!. So that Zeilinger has his well deserved Nobel, who's the guy that's always on the shortlist for the next 20 years?. When I started my BSc in 2013, Aspect was invited to give a lecture to open the academic year.

One thing that I remember to this day is that he told us that life goes by really fast, and that one day we would wake up and be his age (he was 64 or 65 at the time). He stressed that we should love what we do, even if it meant that we wouldn't be physicists after all.

Now, almost 10 years later, I have just finished my PhD in physics. Although it was a nice journey, I lost my passion for research and started to work in industry, which has been very fun. So thanks for the advice, professor Aspect :). [deleted]. Finally for Anton ! Congratulations !. Well deserved.. Well-deserved. I just hope they will acknowledge during their speech the hard work of their students and postdocs, who largely contributed to that. It is time to give proper credit, there is no shame to that.. It was about time. Every year, we have been like is this the year they finally get it.. ASPECT !!!!. Aspect and Clauser. Finally!. Too bad Stuart Freedman isn't still alive!  And Bell of course. I know one of those people and the experiments, therefore it's a great choice!. Anton should be an easy transformation for Tom Hanks for Entangled Photons: The Motion Picture. Well, I’m glad somebody finally did it. I’ve been entangling my phone charger for years now.. Finally zeilinger gets the medal!. Tom Hanks can't fool me, he can call himself Anton if he wants but we can all tell. darn it! next time its gonna be me ong ong

gg tho well played. This has been quite likely for a few years now. Shame for Bell they didn't award it in the 1980s when he was still alive.. I met Alain Aspect during the convocation ceremony in my University. Never saw this coming because I am too dumb to understand his work.. As an engineering student my initial reaction is.... What the hell did I even read. Like what is the point of all this far off science if there is no way to apply it? Then I realized, they are doing what physicists have always done. Delve into the realm of the unknown to make it known. This MUST be done before any application of new technologies. So good job doing some crazy sci-fi. One day I'll have to understand how to use it, but not today!. One step closer to 0 ping with a server halfway around the world!

edit: I guess people don't like the idea of data being able to move around the world easier/faster. Or instantaneous communication (think Mars).. Aka portals. What about the guy who achieved nuclear fusion?  Dr. Hurricane?. 👏👏. Can someone please what the paragraph under their names entails? Like what can we do with this information or why is it a big deal?. This is so exciting! My Ph.D. advisor worked under Dr. Zeilinger for many years as a post-doc and wrote many papers with him! It’s honestly so neat to see my subfield getting love like that.. What about faster than light hidden variables?. So I get the part about how the statistics reveal that the decoherence effect is not a result of hidden variables.  What I am confused about is how they determine that the effect of taking the second entangled  particle (Bob’s) out of superposition when Alice measures hers, happens instantaneously?  Alice can tell the precise time she measured her photon. But what is measuring the exact time relative to her clock when Bob’s particle is no longer in a superposition ?. Cool. Neeks*. I have read a good bit about the Bell inequality but still can’t wrap my head around it. I have a decent understanding of quantum chemistry and the math, and I know that violating the Bell inequality gives credence to QM but why?. Could this research lead to advances in information technology? Is it possible to move data using entangled states, perhaps using their polarization as some form of binary?. Quantum teleportation... Now that sounds groundbreaking.. Thanks for the sources. Do you think this means an ansible is feasible and if so, how long before we can build one?. John Clauser should be getting the No Bell prize! 😂. So does quantum teleportation finally violate the light speed limit on information travel or?. Do ziagts ma de Batschn aus. Endlich!. Na, oiso, war schon Zeit. Artist at the Ars Electronica and Nobel Prize laureate.. Anton, Anton, Anton!. der hawara hots wirki gschofft. Aspect has been on the shortlist for 30 years I'd say! It's the Nobel of the forever "next time"!. Yakir Aharonov and Michael Berry have been on the shortlist for decades (for geometric phases). Berry's 81 right now and Aharonov is 90, so I think we have next year's top contender.. Did time go by as fast as he said it would?. Link?. Not exactly surprising.  There's only a finite set of living physicists with works cited highly enough to deserve the prize.  Get enough guesses and someone will be right.. I predicted quantum information generally and Zeilinger specifically in a Nobel thread about a month ago: [https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/x83btv/comment/ingd4ky/?utm\_source=reddit&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/x83btv/comment/ingd4ky/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=web2x&context=3). Zeilinger did this in his initial statement already. 

"Die Auszeichnung solle eine Ermutigung für junge Menschen sein, sagte Zeilinger. "Denn dieser Preis wäre nicht möglich ohne die hunderten jungen Menschen, mit denen ich über die Jahre gearbeitet habe. Mein Rat an junge Menschen: Arbeiten Sie an den Themen, die Sie interessieren, und kümmern Sie sich nicht um die möglichen Anwendungen."

Translation (by me, so might not be that accurate):

"This award should be an encouragement for young people, Zeilinger said. "Because this award would not have been able without the hundreds of young people I have been working with throughout the years. My advice to young people: Work on topics that spark your interest and don't care about possible uses of them".. Aspect performed his Bell test experiments as a PhD student.. And Zeilinger too innit. oh wtf he died? He was my advisor in 2010. We shared a lab in LBL w/ Kolomensky. Delayed choice i would say. You deserve it!. I genuinely think you’re getting downvoted because people only read your first couple sentences, which sounded dismissive.

I think a lot of people feel the same as your initial reaction, and we should be honest about that. If more people had your second realization, there would be much more appreciation for basic science and theory than there currently is!. There are a lot of applications already. Quantum computing, materials science, renewable energy, medical imaging and drug modeling, off the top of my head.. dude -- sell a Bored Ape / Anti-Bored Ape pair. And you won't know which one you got and which one someone else has, until one day, one of you takes a peak at it and finds out. I think Nobel prizes are awarded to discoveries in fundamental physics. And ICF is only one type of fusion, also already known since the nuclear bombs.. I think [this article](http://scholarpedia.org/article/Bell%27s_theorem) does a pretty good job of explaining it.

It's not so much that the Bell inequalities give credence to QM, but rather they show that the results of QM can't be replicated by a classical local hidden variable theory. Thus, if you've got an experiment that violates Bell's inequalities,then you've got an experiment that really truly is doing quantum mechanics, and the results can't just be "classical physics, but we forgot to check something so the results look random".. There is a notion of the "reality" of the quantum state, that is essentially the idea that the particle is in a definite state. Classically, if you know that something is in a definite state, say A, then you can measure what state it's in and you will get the outcome A with 100% probability. This gets muddled in quantum mechanics, because you have incompatible measurements.

The Bell inequality says that if you try to prepare two particles in definite states, such that any possible measurement on either particle has a pre-determined outcome, and you then distribute the particles to two different agents who proceed to measure them, then there is a bound on the correlation between their measurement outcomes. Quantum mechanics can violate this bound. If you prepare a pair of entangled photons, send photon one to each agent and they perform the right measurements to violate this bound, then it proves that the particles did not have a definite state at the time of creation. It therefore gives physical meaning to mathematical concepts like superposition and entanglement.

So when someone asks you "how do you know that the particle really is in a superposition, and it's not just that you don't know where it is", the answer is that the latter explanation would not be able to violate a Bell inequality.. Oh man, this is excellent timing! Minute physics and 3 Blue 1 Brown released a team-up covering exactly this. Bell's Inequality using light polarization. I wonder if them being on the list caused people to watch this and it to show up on my feed.

I didn't fully grok it either until watching this yesterday.

https://youtu.be/zcqZHYo7ONs

https://youtu.be/MzRCDLre1b4. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zcqZHYo7ONs) from 3blue1brown really made it click for me.

My understanding is that physicists have been designing experiments to close the theoretical loopholes, and that this Nobel Prize was awarded for further verification that there are no hidden variables; either:

* there really is no fact of the matter prior to measurement (realism isn't true), or 
* entangled particles are non-locally connected (their coordination is not bound to time or space, locality isn't true), or 
* both, or 
* the universe is superdetermined, or 
* every quantum fluctuation results in an entirely new copy of the entire universe. The article linked here is super math heavy but I think the point is that the theory and experimental results show that the settings on Alice's detector affect Bob's results. An example of detector settings is the orientation of a polarizing filter. Imagine a stream of vertically polarized light. If Alice sets her filter to vertical, she will maximize the probability of making a detection. If she sets it to horizontal, she will minimize it. The experiment is done with photons in superposition of H and V so the detector settings affect how likely, when Alice makes a detection, that detected photon is H vs V . Now let's say Bob leaves his filter set the same over the course of many experiments whereas Alice varies it between two intermediate angles. What you will find is that *Bob's* chance of detecting is affected by *Alice's* detector setting. If then you vary Bob's detector setting, you will find it affects Alice's probability. This cannot happen if locality is assumed.

Happy to be corrected if this is not the right interpretation!. Check out the first part to Dr Sabine Hossenfelder’s YT video for an explanation: https://youtu.be/KW9htNv50S4. Especially the quantum computing and cryptography segment would be greatly benefited by this. Yep just yesterday I posted that I thought he’d get snubbed again.  Glad to see these fine researchers get their due.. https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/xum29b/comment/iqwtyij/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3 but it was not spot on, he was missing Zelinger.. https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/xum29b/any_predictions_on_who_might_win_the_nobel_prize/iqwtyij/. >*"My advice to young people: Work on topics that spark your interest and don't care about possible uses of them".*

+1 Beautiful quote that must be in every initial statement of every Nobel prize :-) and not only for young people ;-). Yes, this is the minimum they can do.

Edit. Why the downvotes? I am saying that acknowledging the work of students, scientists, etc. is a good thing and that is the minimum that they can do (or the bare minimum if you prefer) in terms of respect towards past coworkers whose work has been instrumental.. And Clauser was a postdoc, and his co-author on their hidden variables paper, Stuart Freedman, was a grad student.. Sorry to have brought you sad news.  Stuart was a great scientist and mentor.  Here are a couple tributes:

[http://www.nasonline.org/publications/biographical-memoirs/memoir-pdfs/freedman-stuart.pdf](http://www.nasonline.org/publications/biographical-memoirs/memoir-pdfs/freedman-stuart.pdf)

[https://newscenter.lbl.gov/2012/11/16/in-memoriam-stuart-freedman-renowned-nuclear-physicist/](https://newscenter.lbl.gov/2012/11/16/in-memoriam-stuart-freedman-renowned-nuclear-physicist/). Might be the best pun im going to hear all week.. Yeah I don’t see the need to downvote it. It seemed like genuine, but also a bit naive about the importance of quantum applications to our everyday lives. That might have also been a reason people downvoted.. What? Besides quantum computing, please, name one example of how quantum entanglement has been "already" applied to any of those. Who has used it to design a drug? Which medical imaging device violates the Bell inequalities?   Where can I buy a quantum energy source?. >This conclusion is very surprising, since non-locality is normally taken to be prohibited by the theory of relativity.

So, there **is a contradicton** between the two theories? I thought they were both valid but just couldn't find the common link to bring them together (and that it would be the graviton).. Awesome. So in a sense, probability is fundamental? There is no reductionism possible to some underlying, more precise layer?. Thanks. Your last sentence really helps.. I'm sure these videos got a bump in traffic that made them appear on your feed, yeah. They are from 2017.

Even more spooky action is that Sixty Symbols released a video minutes before the prize was announced, exactly explaining Bell's Inequality. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0RiAxvb_qI4. If every quantum fluctuation resulted in an entirely new copy of the universe, that would be the coolest and most frightening thing I’ve ever heard. Can’t believe the one I ended up being in was this one, but I guess it’s not so bad considering what things could be like, lol.. That is not true! The Bell inequality is about correlation. Locality is not violated. If you just focus on the outcomes of Alice you would see random outcomes regardless of how you set Bob’s detector. The interesting thing is the correlation between the outcomes of Bob’s and Alice’s.. I predicted Zeillinger and Rainer Blatt and Jeff Kimble (also in that same thread).  I have a feeling though they'll give a prize to Blatt next year jointly with Cirac and Zoller for the ion-trap quantum computer. It looks like the nobel committee have finally started to acknowledge quantum information science so this prize should open the door for future QI related prizes. Long overdue.. u/Marvel_Phenol

what's it like being a prophet?. No actually the minimum would be to not mention them at all. I suppose he could read out the names and resumes of everyone who has ever worked for him, if that makes you happy, which I’m sure that information is publicly available anyway.. might be the best I've heard all year. Quantum communication is a well developed field with several communication links up and running around the world.. Entanglement applies to anytime particles interact enough with each other to behave as an ensemble and exhibit different physics.

Almost anything within modern chemistry and solid state physics uses these types of calculations. Some examples: MRI, lasers, semiconductors, modern batteries, LEDs, photovoltaics, atomic clocks, electron microscopes (tangentially related due to necessity of wave-function), piezoelectrics, etc.

The sun is the biggest quantum energy source. Discovery of black body radiation is arguably what started the field of quantum physics.

I was wrong about drug development. It hasn’t happened yet. There is active research in this field and algorithms being developed though https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2021/sc/d0sc05718e.. There is a contradiction between "classical" relativity and quantum mechanics.. I think you're confusing special and general relativity; special relativity is easily compatible with quantum mechanics, whereas general relativity is more problematic. Locality happens to be a prediction of special relativity, and quantum mechanics only requires a slight conceptual modification of what locality means in order to remain compatible.. The trick is the "normally taken to be" part there. Quantum mechanics and special relativity are completely compatible -- no influences or information travels faster than light or anything like that. Rather, quantum mechanics is nonlocal in the sense that if subsystems A and B are entangled then complete information about the state of A is not contained within A alone, but is stored nonlocally in B too. This doesn't actually violate relativity, although there are a number of "apparent" issues that arise (and can be explained away without altering either theory).. Yes. Superposition means the particle is in sort of a field of probability, with no locality (does not exist as a point in space) until it is observed. In other words, you cannot separate the observer from the act of measuring. 

When measuring, the particle has locality (position in space and time).

In other words, it appears that a person brings the particle into existence from the act of measuring (observing the particle). 

the experiment gives further credence to Heisenberg's postulations back in the 40s.. Don't worry, you're also in several of the other ones. lol. It's like the exact opposite of Occam's Razor, and the universe has a tendency to be very parsimonious and efficient. I strongly doubt Many Worlds is correct.

I think that identity (of a particle, etc.) is non-local and the entangled particles are actually aspects of the same process, which is not bound to time/space. The only reason we believe the two aspects to be discrete particles is our macro/classical bias; believing that the world consists of discrete objects.

I also kind of think that Superdeterminism is entirely plausible.. It doesn't stop there. Every time some electron in your body undergoes a quantum fluctuation, a new universe would be created with another version of you. And then repeat again for both versions of you every time there's another electron that quantum fluctuates. And again. And again. By now there would be a necessarily finite but near infinite number of versions of you in a near infinite number of universes containing versions of you. And another near infinite number of universes that don't have a version of you.. It depends on your interpretation, many hold that Bells theorem shows non local effects exist in QM, and that a state contains non local Information. For a two party state, these are effectively just the magnitudes of the Schmid coefficients. "The correlation between the outcomes of Bob's and Alice's" is really just another way to say "Alice's detector setting affects Bob's results", right?. I think that would be too close thematically. Maybe in 3-5 years. Lukin would maybe also fit in?. [deleted]. I don't think the ion-trap QC will get it unless it proves to become the industry standard.  If IBM continues to wins the QC race, it could very well be merely a footnote in the path towards usable QCs. Cirac-Zoller ion-trap quantum computer was proposed in 1995. As of April 2018, the largest number of particles to be controllably entangled is 20 trapped ions. It deserves a Nobel prize, I hope before Cirac dies...

Literature Nobel lost too, the oportunity to recognice Javier Marías work (RIP):

https://theconversation.com/javier-marias-the-renowned-spanish-writer-who-stretched-time-and-sentences-190444

https://www.theguardian.com/books/2022/sep/12/javier-marias-modern-literatures-great-philosopher-of-everyday-absurdity

https://twitter.com/perezreverte/status/1568999039256895489

https://twitter.com/BrunaHusky/status/1568971058782289920. What are you saying?

The minimum, in terms of respect, would be to at least acknowledge the fact that this work was accomplished with the help of students, postdocs, etc. as Zeilenger did. 

It seems that you have a very limited understanding of how things are going in experimental sciences, such as biology and physics, where the PI gets all the credit for the work they did not necessarily do. More than often, the ideas were not even theirs in the first place and they capitalized on them. So, yeah, it is not very fair that all the credit goes to a single person. This is a major problem with Nobel prizes as they can only be awarded to three people, which does not reflect how research is done nowadays. 

So, yes, people who made the discoveries and overall work possible should at least be mentioned, to show the public that they do exist and that they should, at least, get some form of recognition for it. It is important to mention that to the general public as most people would still think that those guys did all by themselves. So, yes, the minimum would be to at least acknowledge those people would participated, as Zeilinger nicely did. Not all people mention the hard work of their research group. 

Regarding the fact that the information is publicly available, this is true but is difficult to access for most people as one would need to go through the different publications, etc. Most people are not capable of doing that.. Sorry, while I don't deny the importance of quantum mechanics in general for what you've mentioned, I can't say I see how entanglement is relevant to those examples.

It is not enough for particles to interact to be meaningfully entangled; you can easily construct density matrices where all correlations are essentially classical.  This is especially the case for almost anything operating at room temperature! 

As for semiconductors: band theory is a non-interacting, single particle formalism.  MRI is also clearly single-body physics -- no entanglement to be found there.. I dont understand why there is a contradiction.

Its like you put a red sock in one box, and a blue in the other, only the socks get chosen randomly inside the box until you open it.

You send the boxes in opposite directions and when u open one, you instantly know the other one.

There was no FTL travel between the particles....


Reading the replies, there is some confusion.
The socks are here not to represent quantum super position, or the measurement problem of QM, but to shed light that nothing special is happening when you "open the box".. I don’t think you need a conscious person to do the observing, right? The ‘measurement’ occurs because of the way the experiment is set up - the person could choose to note the result or forget about it?. Ok you can say that. But what I mean by locality is that there is no causality relation between the detector direction of Bob’s setup and the outcomes of Alice’s measurement, i.e. Bob cannot send any information to Alice by setting the direction of his detector. Therefore locality, which is the principle stating that there is no causality relation between spacelike separated events, is not violated by QM.. What is meant by non-local? I've never been able to quite get what is meant by it.

>a state contains non local information

Non local as in effects from wave/particles far away?. No it is not. Alice sees a totally random data. She cannot guess what was the orientation of Bob’s detector. This means that the conditional probability of the outcomes of Alice is the same as the non-conditional probabilities which means that there is no causality relation between the orientation of Bob’s detector and the outcomes of Alice. That would violate the locality principle (or that there is no faster than light communication). Correlation is not equivalent to causality!. Maybe. But they had 2 Astro ones in a row recently (2019 with exoplanets and 2020 with black holes) so who knows. Not as familiar with Lukins work so don't know.. [deleted]. lol! I never look smart.. keeping this in mind lol. It's not far off from Industry standard. The Honeywell ion-trap quantum computer had/has (?) a quantum volume of 128 (Could have increased in the meantime). That IBM eagle has 127 qubits. So who knows. I'm betting on the ion trap for the nobel though as it was the first time a design for a CNOT was proposed that was experimentally implementable. They even showed how to run Shor's algorithm on it in the 1995 paper by using a numerical simulation. https://iontrap.umd.edu/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Quantum-computations-with-cold-trapped-ions.pdf. Well that’s why they got the Nobel prize right? Entanglement is so fundamental to any interaction that them finding a real solution to the EPR paradox is revolutionary.

All of these are necessarily described as quantum systems though. There is no classical explanation of them. Like yeah of course once you have enough particles with enough energy it becomes a completely classical system. That’s common sense.. Your example contains hidden local variables. Inside each box is a fixed color, although it’s not observable from outside. It turns out that any theory of local hidden variables predicts certain correlations that are violated by QM. That’s what the bell inequality experiments show.. This is a common misunderstanding of quantum entanglement. https://www.newscientist.com/letter/mg23431212-900-6-quantum-socks-are-more-tangled-than-that/. No, you do not need a conscious person. I keep saying "FFS we need to start using a different word when discussing QM." Think about what happens when you, a human, observe something. You look at it, right? Well, how do you see what you're looking at? If you looked at it in a completely dark room with no lights or windows, would you be able to see anything? No, of course not. You need to illuminate whatever it is that you want to see (observe). So you shine light on it. The light bouncing off whatever you're looking at and then entering your eye is what lets you see something.

Now, apply that same logic to QM. Quantum particles physically could not care less whether or not you have your eyes open. They care if something (e.g. another particle) slams into them or they slam into another particle.. I always interpreted non-local as *outside the observable universe* ie beyond the sphere of causality that's limited  by the speed of light.. Hmmm what about faster than light hidden variables? Possible?. Bloch/Greiner/Lukin deserve a prize, but it's way too early. That seminal paper by Greiner and Lukin on defect-free atom-by-atom assembly was published just 6 years ago. If an AMO prize is awarded, I'm betting the next one will either be on attosecond physics (Anne L'Huillier, Paul Corkum, Ferenc Krausz, winners of this year's Wolf Prize) or the optical lattice clock (Hidetoshi Katori and Jun Ye, winners of last year's Breakthrough Prize).. I just hope when its awarded Shor is included.  I know he's a mathematician, but 99% of the reason anyone gives a fuck about QC is his work. No, I would contend they won for rather the opposite reason: they carried out a *rare* set of experiments whose results can be unequivocally explained only by quantum entanglement.   Nearly everything else in the world is consistent with some quasi-classical hidden variables theory.  This is why Aspect, Clauser, and Zeilinger have won the prize for demonstrating the violation of Bell's inequalities, and the inventors of the transistor, laser, NMR, etc. did not. (Which, I must remark, predated Bell's work! So it should be clear that you do not need quantum entanglement to understand how those systems work.). No, my example the socks are not randomly chosen, and then set on. 

But they just have a probability of being a set color when you open the box (make a measurement)

Please explain whats wrong with my example.. Can you explain how in the 2 socks example, the anology breaks down?. Thank you 🙏. Is that solely influenced by entanglement/superposition type effects? I think I read that the so called "speed of entanglement" is at least 10,000x the speed of light.. Anne used to be on the committee and there was a rumour that she left so that she could get the prize eventually. They just gave the prize to Strickland tho for chirped pulse amplification so maybe it’s too soon.

 As for Jun I think he’s a very safe bet, more so than say Lukin or Blatt.. Cirac, Zoller and Shor sharing the same Nobel would be awesome but unlikely. On the other hand Roger Penrose won it recently for purely mathematically work (singularity theorems) so it's definitely possible.. There is a common example about socks people mention and I assumed that’s what you were getting at. It sounds like your example is equivalent to what actually happens in real life, i.e. the color in either box is fundamentally uncertain but when you open one it determines the color in the other box, because the two boxes are anticorrelated. But now I’m confused about why you don’t agree that this example is inconsistent with classical physics. In classical physics, each box must have a definite color at all times (although it might not be known to us).. >At first glance, this is not so odd; perhaps the particles are like a pair of socks—if Alice gets the right sock, Bob must have the left. But under quantum mechanics, particles are not like socks, and only when measured do they settle on a spin of up or down. 

I don't know if you'll be satisfied with what they write, but an article recently posted to Scientific American, they specifically bring up the sock example that seems very common. They don't go into great detail for sock equivocation but if I understand correctly its because the answer is pretty straight forward...

In QM, entangled particles are not like socks since their properties are not set until measured where the sock's properties are already set prior to measurement regardless if the person doing the measuring is aware of those properties or not.

But I'm having a hard time getting my head around all of this so it is more than possible that I'm not understanding it correctly and so maybe you want to look at the article for yourself...

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-universe-is-not-locally-real-and-the-physics-nobel-prize-winners-proved-it/. The socks 'existing' (having defined properties in the box is only a feature of and assumed 'localized reality') If I understand the result correctly this is fundamentally untrue of quantum mechanics.. A little late but I want to add that what he says is not how it really is. It's just one of the ways it might be. Nobody knows yet. Coppenhagen, Many Worlds, Qbism, and other interpretations would give you different answers to your questions.  De-Broglie-Bohm interpretation, though, is rendered outdated by the findings of these Nobel Prize victors. . I agree, my example just meant to say that the information doesn't travel between the boxes as in classical physics. its just an issue with the measurement problem that quantum mechanics has.. This is not about the measurement problem. It’s about the different correlations that arise in QM vs classical physics. There are lots of good resources people have posted here to get a better understanding of bell’s inequalities and why they’re violated. Not sure if this allowed, but today I returned to the same lecture hall where I took my first physics class to give the weekly colloquium. I got a little emotional thinking about how far I’ve come!. nan. Just for the record, I was never the best student in the class, and struggled a lot, but kept at this field because I’ve always loved it and it was so neat to show the fruits of that labor to where I started. So just in case someone out there needs some encouragement on their journey- you’ve got this!. nice stick. Great talk today! - current CWRU Grad student. I teach science in my first high school science classroom.  Not quite the same, but congratulations, I can see where you're coming from.  Also, I barely passed in semester 1. Didn't know it was my calling until mid 20's.. Pardon my foul mouth, but that's fucking awesome. I once had the experience of asking a question of Sir Roger Penrose (against the advice of Dad, who was attending with me and thought I'd be roasted) in a symposium and it was marvelous. I can't imagine the glory of GIVING the lecture. I hope you will soon have a framed copy of that picture. Well done!. Well earned reward for hard work! Enjoy!. Congratulations! It is a strange good feeling to be back at the alma mater from the other side of the class room.. The room I took my first college level physics course in no longer exists. 🤷‍♂️

I guess I could visit my old high school and give a guest lecture there. Would actually be kind of fun.. What school is this?  Kinda looks like the Bell Museum at UofMN. Congratulations! I hope I can do the same someday.. Don’t know you but I’m proud of you…. Is this Rock 301 at CWRU? I had my first physics class there too. lol just saw Case physics's retweet and came onto reddit and was greeted with the same thing. Congrats!. I'm doing that next week. I'm nervous!. Very cool, congrats you should be very proud of yourself!. Congratulations! That’s an awesome achievement. Had to be a thrill.. That’s awesome. Huge finglonger!. Is that... ROCK 301?. Hmm needs more ruler…. Aren't you that girl with the pretty space dress? Also, I fully get that feeling, the first time I got to give a public lecture at the very same planetarium I fell in love with astrophysics was simply magical.   
PS: AGNs rule!. The picture looks NSFW.. It look like two tiddies pressed together. Congratulations. You've come far but Jane farther to go!. Congratulations! Enjoy the feeling of that success. I've experienced similarly recently, landed a dream job from a background with no maths or physics. Passion beats ability every time (and great profs also help - consider taking any influential profs a bottle as thanks)!. Nice job OP!!  It’s a pretty cool feeling.. I like teaching at schools I have attended.. Excellent! Congratulations!. Do you work on TDEs?. Big ups tcd. That stick is huge. Is not too heavy for one hour of swinging it around?

It is not easier to use a laser pointer?  


Edit: Congrats, I know how hard it is to finish physics when you are not the best in the class or the teachers' favorite.. Congratulations. It was a good talk too.. Well done! What was the colloquium on?. Very cool! I wish to do same one day in my university. If it wasn't too cold there.... u/Andromeda321 That's a great diagram of an AGN core, btw! Probably on of the best I've seen.

I've been out of the field for about 3 years now, any papers I should read to bring me up to speed on new research?

(For example have we established what triggers AGN jets? Or is it still assumed to be 1kHz resonance between the disk and horizon). Hey! You're awesome!. Hopefully I’ll get there soon. Why wouldn't it be allowed?  That's great. 👍. Good job! 73!. who cares. This is awesome congratulations! I was one of those people who got burned out of physics and changed my major/career. However, I haven’t lost my passion for physics/astronomy and this gives me hope for the future. Thank you!. This is such a powerful moment, both for you and for your professors watching your seminar.  You can be sure that they are unbelievably proud of you.  These were always my favorite moments, when one of my students returned to give a presentation.. Who was your advisor?. Same here. I was the underdog against the geniuses in my class. This Tuesday I am moving to another country to lead a research project on quantum computing and molecular simulations.. Well, if there's a field where it becomes evident that the brightest and biggest stars in the firmament may collapse faster, that's astronomy!  Keep on shining with your love for your work, but be wary of burning out too soon :). I did well in my courses, but I struggled on the PGRE. My grad school options weren't great. As I was finishing grad school, I went to apply for postdocs at some 100 places and didn't get an offer. I got an extension for an extra year, applied again, and got one offer for two years. When that was running out I applied again for postdocs and didn't get an offer. I scrambled and found funding for most of a year. It was almost time to move when someone suggested I'd apply for a tenure track job at a national lab. At this point my grad school applications hadn't gone well and in three rounds of postdoc applications to some one hundred places each time I'd gotten one offer. How the fuck was I going to get a tenure track position?

Somehow, here I am. Three years in and they haven't called me up and said "oops we made a mistake and meant to hire that other person" yet so I figure I'm probably good.

Now that I'm on the other side I see just how much randomness there is in the process. I have also seen friends and colleagues decide for hiring committees that they aren't good enough for a position without trying. I've also seen that sometimes a group is looking for something very specific, but this is almost never known to the candidates.. For someone who is in undergrad and felt intimidated by the geniuses, wondering if I'll be enough, this is a great message. Thank you so much and congratulations!. Congratulations! What was the topic of your seminar?. That is awesome and motivational! Currently feel like I'm struggling as a postdoc and this is a real shot in the arm.. The smartest students usually don’t understand their gifts. I had to work twice as hard as my peers, however this was good for my work ethic when I started as an engineer.. another undergrad commenting to say i really appreciated this. i love the subject but god do i feel like an idiot on my course sometimes. The students who struggle are the best at spreading knowledge to others, because you can see where they struggled and how to explain it. 

Take it from a guy who whizzed through flight school but was a terrible instructor. Just land the damn plane it's easy!

Congrats on what you've done it's awesome.. What a great goal to aim for. I think I'll adopt it!. Using a giant 2m meter stick as a pointer is a tired and true tradition at my Alma mater, and frankly using it today made me realize a dream I never even knew I had! 😄. Precursor to the fing-longer.. It's actually an important piece of safety equipment. Or at least so we have been told --- "hit people getting hurt by electricity with a stick"  ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

(most of my labs had a broom for this though, so ymmv). Thanks! Glad to hear it was well received! :). That’s awesome!  I took my first physics class in high school, and even though it’s been years since I earned a PhD, I still think back to those simple experiments with standing waves.  What you’re doing matters, keep it up!. What was the question?. No, Case Western Reserve University!. It is!. You’ll do great!. Yep! :). I do! Radio observations of them.. Not using it nonstop, just when relevant.. My alma mater has terrible winters too, hence deliberately timing things so I'm here when it's nice out! :). At CWRU?. That’s amazing- congratulations!!! Good luck with the move!. Well, it's a good thing your professors couldn't truly measure your real position or future velocity. Otherwise they would have changed the outcome.. That is amazing, well done!. >Well, if there's a field where it becomes evident that the brightest and biggest stars in the firmament may collapse faster, that's astronomy!  Keep on shining with your love for your work, but be wary of burning out too soon :)

Man this is an incredible analogy and makes me feel a ton of emotions.. This made my day!. I really wish for the very specific type stuff they’d just advertise it. Would save so many people trouble.. I'm confused... you got a postdoc BEFORE you got a doctorate? "Post doc" means AFTER you've obtained your doctorate. Maybe it's just to early for me but can you explain this?. Radio observations of Tidal Disruption Events (aka when a black hole rips apart a star that comes too close).. Theodore Roosevelt: "Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far.". I vastly prefer using / watching people point with a physical object rather than those god awful shaky red dots from a laser pointer.. the meter stick and 2 meter stick are pointers at my college too! The lasers stay in the lab. The huge stick is definitely satisfying, but I would suggesting getting yourself (note: not shared.  Yours.) a presentation remote.  It's not always necessary, but it packs a lot of nice quality-of-life features.  Depending on the room layout, being able to have your slide controls in your hand means you don't have to do the awkward "walk over to the computer to change slides" thing.  If there's no clock available, you can set an alarm, so that it will vibrate a silent warning for you at 5, 2, and 0 (on mine, anyway) minutes remaining.  And yeah, there's a laser pointer.

Buy, put in conference travel bag with a set of fresh long-shelf-life batteries, and forget about it until you need it.

Personally, I have the Logitech R800, and it's served me quite well for a bit north of a decade.

-------

E: Personally, the wireless slide advance thing is what I really *really* like.  I've gotten too used to being able to talk, wave my hands around, and accurately advance in the middle of a sentence.. That school needs to reinvest like 10 dollars into some actual equipment this is a shit show out of 2003 and you all deserve better.

They dont even have decent software?  What are you zooming into a meeting on a computer that is connnected to the projector?

Oh god.

Time to change that tradition.  It was adopted those big ass blackboards and allowing people to take notes while moving around it, its not needed anymore.. In D&D, you use a ten foot pole to check for traps. I always wondered why real people didn't use them. But you've given me an excellent use case... ;). I also attended. Very interesting talk. I especially appreciate how understandable you made the content. I feel a lot of the colloquia can get bogged down with technical details which make the talks difficult to follow, but you did a great job in keeping it interesting and engaging! Thank you for a great talk!. He would fill you in, but he doesn't want to repeat himself. 

Tile pun :). The whole thing about two created opposite particles (say photon and anti-photon) changing polarities instantly though they are moving in opposite directions at the speed of light. You know that whole deal?

His answer was "either the information travels faster than the speed of light, there's some sort of connection through a wormhole, or it's proof of God. We don't know which. Great question."

It was a relief that I didn't get fucktarded in front of 400 intellectuals, and Dad was suitably impressed.. That was in my top 3 when I was picking undergrad schools. This photo was taken from where my PI would sit.  He was 70 then... And that was 15 years ago... Anyway, did a REALLY old tall dude take this for you?. Perhaps, it's international practise - physicist must be cold and hungry, huh! At least while studying.

I think I need to post my institution and university one day here, hope international community will like Soviet Brutalism and Constructivism ;). :D thank you so much!. They didn't do it. A physics career is more like a marathon than a sprint. My average grades were simply "good enough," in comparison to the genius (a true one) who graduated before me and received all A++ grades in every class. He is now a string theory researcher at the University of California. A few of my MSc classmates (women) have also been appointed to professorships, one at Imperial College London and the other at the University of Colorado.. I didn't mention every step, I assumed some reading between the lines.. Or Nancy Reagan’s “Dream a little more and maybe then something else”.. I have one, but you know, big stick!. I've come from live events industry into education doing AV and education want to spend nothing on AV. Still rocking OHP and acetate in most rooms. It's depressing going from supporting and setting up LED walls, line arrays etc to supporting 4:3, installs that are over 15 years old and falling over. Just waiting for live events to properly kick off then I'll jump back from education.. We've got a few million dollars of livestreaming equipment, and quite a lot of professors still prefer to just jack their laptop into the HDMI aux in than to go through the room system.

At that point, streaming the screen via normal videoconferencing software is the obvious choice, and actually works pretty well.. maybe OP was presenting both on zoom and in-person, hence the projector has the zoom overlay?. That is awesome to hear, thanks! And yes I def get it about the details- you might have noticed there were a ton more on my slides, but I didn’t want it to be a talk where if you didn’t pay attention for 30 seconds you wouldn’t know what was going on any more.. You made my day. Eigh! Nice.. It’s a great school and a great physics department!. Oh I guess it was too early. I missed the "As I was finishing grad school..." part. My bad. Of all the cool places in CERN, I think this is the coolest one. nan. Recently I have been in CERN for a visit of the structure, and this is the place that fascinated me more than anything, a truly unique experience and I think everyone regardless their profession should visit this place


For more info https://home.cern/about/updates/2017/08/first-antiprotons-elena

https://espace.cern.ch/elena-project/_layouts/mobile/mblwiki.aspx?Url=%2Felena-project%2Fsitepages%2Fhome%2Easpx. Hope they're unionized.. How long can antimatter be stored for these days?. Coolest in the literal sense, too. They can achieve sub-Kelvin cooling with antihydrogen.

**Edit:** hey, /r/physics, I'm going to need you to stop interpreting "sub-Kelvin" as "sub-zero-Kelvin" because that's not what it means. Just like "sub-millimetre" doesn't mean negative distance or "sub-microsecond" doesn't mean negative time.. I liked the small brass plate in the basement near Cantine 1: 'birthplace of the internet'.

But this is excellent, too! Amazing tech!. You won't like it as much when you find out about the rounders.... I went there a couple of years ago and got some pictures inside if people would like to see?

I also bought a tape of data from the collider. . Laughs in time travel (weeb reference) Tu tu ru. Been inside. Absolutely amazing. Nothin'. What's the antimatter with you?. I agree. First visit?

I fanboyed like a... fanboy... after my first visit too.. I am from Israel and each year 12 grade physics class is going on a trip to CERN. Soon will be my turn. Up or Down, Bottom or Top, it's Strange but has a Charm. Steins gate always pops to mind when I see posts about CERN.. Be on the lookout for some illuminati guys.... How do they keep the factory from being annihilated?. Oh, so this factory doesn't matter? . [deleted]. I made the electron cooler for the ELENA ring. I would definitely recommend watching the video on the StandUpMaths YouTube channel [Here ](https://youtu.be/nkXwO5nrimw). You at least get a sense of how much is going on inside, although Matt doesn't discuss many of the experiments in detail. I would love to visit the CERN facilities if I get the chance.. I thought it was in Belgrade..?. That building must be unimportant. It doesn't matter.. SO THEY ARE MAKING A TIME TRAVEL MACHINE! WORLD WAR 3 WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE OF THIS. . I visited when it was on, so the farthest we could go was part of the tunnel outside the CMS detector. Honestly the coolest thing for me was seeing how strong the magnetic field was. A string of paperclips holding itself at a ~45deg angle in a seemingly empty tunnel. Cool shit. [deleted]. Fake news.. Was going to make a joke, but I imagine this is a genuinely cool experience.. Where at CERN is this exactly? I used to work there for many years and I don't recall building 393. Is it on the Prevessin site or the Meyrin site?. I dunno, their cafeteria impressed the hell out of me.

You're right about visiting. I'm an ad-man and have been twice in 2007. Was incredible.. They're probably ionized.. Damn that's good. Antiprotons can be stored pretty-much indefinitely:

https://home.cern/about/updates/2016/12/base-antiprotons-celebrate-their-first-birthday

Anti-atoms are more difficult. I think simpler anti matter like positrons or antiprotons can be stored for weeks in a penning trap. Sustained Antiproton "Stack" Time, given by fermilab is [69 days, 10 hours, 18 minutes](http://operations.fnal.gov/records/) but that was 14 years ago, I've not read someone breaking this record, maybe there is just no need to store it for longer periods?

The ALPHA experiment at CERN last reported [16 minutes](https://press.cern/press-releases/2011/06/cern-experiment-traps-antimatter-atoms-1000-seconds) for anti hydrogen.. Depends if it’s kept in the fridge or freezer but it’s usually a few days after you’ve opened it, starts to turn. -sorry couldn’t help myself- :P. That's why it's called a factory. Antimatter storage is very difficult and can only be done for very short durations. Do you mean to say that people are using antihydrogen as a cryogen, or that they are cooling antihydrogen to mK temperatures (using e.g. a dilution refrigerator)?. ...Matter can move less than stationary?. he probably means 0.X kelvin. Negative kelvin temperatures are extremely hot not cold also the sign would make an amazing sticker . > sub-Kelvin

Meaning "below Kelvin" ಠ_ಠ. That's a dodgy building for sure, 2 or 4 from memory, now occupied by LHCb people.. I just finished steins gate. Working on zero now. Absolutely awesome show. Was looking for a Steins;Gate reference. Was not disappointed.. El Psy Congroo. Can I come? I'm not in Israel and I'm not in grade 12, nor am I currently in any physics class... But that shouldn't be a problem, right? . [deleted]. Yeah ok then. . It stands for anti-proton deaccelerator, it's the ring that supplies the experiments.

https://home.cern/about/accelerators/antiproton-decelerator. Does it matter?. Icy what you did there!. It's the meyrin site. Just a short distance directly east of R2.. https://maps.cern.ch/mapsearch/mapsearch.htm?n=[%27393%27]. IIRC it's in the Meyrin site. Should be a block or two east of R2.. >their cafeteria impressed the hell out of me.

You musn't have been to R1.... I want my cafeteria to have a beam status display panel over the water dispensary. . But not polarized.. Actually one of the most difficult parts of making antimatter atoms is getting the bare antiprotons (negatively charged antihydrogen ions) to combine with positrons to create neutral antihydrogen (not an ion) without the antihydrogen escaping the trap. Ions are easy to hold but what they want is neutral atoms.

So I'd say that "unionization" is a challenge and something they're working very hard on! =). Yeah this might be one of the best puns I’ve ever seen. . BASE stored antiprotons for more than a year when they couldn't get new ones, see dukwon's comment. They could probably store them for centuries if there would be a point of that.. I thought a Penning trap could store antimatter for quite a while. A quick Google search is showing 16 minutes, but this is from 2011 so I'm sure it can't be up to date.. The second, using magneto-optical traps.. I believe OP means T < 1 K, not T < 0 K.. I've heard Richard Feynman describe antimatter as being regular matter that's traveling backwards through time.  But be warned, this isn't talking about temperature, and it probably isn't very metaphysically profound either.. I guess time travel has been solved?. [deleted]. Well this is antimatter, so I assume it moves in the opposite direction of regular matter.. Never said anything about negative temperatures.. [Yes?](https://www.google.com/search?q="sub-kelvin") You can have fractions of a Kelvin. It's not an indivisible unit.. Yes below a Kelvin . Indeed!. lmao they actually made CERN from Steins; Gate👏👏. Like putting a hat on a hat. I just had no idea we could confine something the size of a building that way. ;). It was a joke. Antimatter. No matter. . Get your coat.. does it anti-matter?. Oh, behind the computing center! Thanks. I don't know, R2 this time of year is amazing, with all the trees turning red. The food in both is pretty bad though :). I had lunch in R3 once and honestly I was a little uncomfortable with how peaceful it was. I didn't have to elbow a single middle schooler to get my food. Yes this is was my initial guess, pretty cool.. I know nothing about physics (sometimes I think i got no business being in this sub) but even I know that this is an incredibly long amount of time. From the little I know antimatter can only exist for tiny fractions of a second. Can someone explain to this layman why it evaporates so quickly?. Ah, makes sense now. That makes a bit more sense. I didn't come up with the phrase, but yeah that's what it means.. i think youre talking about [wiki](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-electron_universe)

the theory that all the electrons and positrons of the universe are really one electron traveling backwards and forwards in time, which would also explain why they all have the same mass. Sub-Kelvin means bellow 1 K.. [removed]. Dissolve the door, you know where the acids are.. Anti-does anti-it matter?. R4 is the best one. The problem is, that whenever antimatter comes in contact with matter, they both [annihilate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annihilation).

If you don't trap the antimatter (with magnets and/or lasers), after a very short time only matter remains.. It doesn't evaporate (turn into a vapor), the anti-particles are annihilated when they come into contact with their corresponding "normal" matter particles.

So the storage problem is that if the antimatter comes into contact with anything *not* made of antimatter, it ceases to exist.. >Can someone explain to this layman why it evaporates so quickly?

-1 (antiproton) + +1 (proton) = 0
. As others said, the antimatter goes away if it comes into contact with matter. So "storing" antimatter means keeping it from touching matter. Since everything is made of matter, this means keeping it from touching even the container it is in (e.g. using magnets). You can achieve negative temperatures. For example in lasers. It has to do with the statistical definition of temperature :). This isn't true. [Wikipedia has a whole article on the subject.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_temperature). The vat of hydrogen peroxide is ready when you are.. R4 is our name for Meyrinoise :). > So the storage problem is that if the antimatter comes into contact with anything not made of antimatter, it ceases to exist.

Antiprotons in contact with electrons are perfectly fine. It is even a method to cool them.. But how? The definition of temperature is how much atoms move and vibrate and at exactly 0 Kelvin atoms do not move. You can't move less than not moving. Unless you mean Celsius and Fahrenheit then yeah you can easily go negative . Yes, but then it's not really "colder".. This isn't *technically* true, but for a very specific definition of temperature that's not the same (although it englobes) of the normal usage . That's way more of a mathematical quirk than an actual physical phenomenon. . Yep!. Damn, now I need a ricotta calzone.. Nope, that's not the definition. The definition of temperature is the change in energy per unit of entropy (dU/dS). That might not mean much but in some cases you can get negative temperatures in certain systems. Sorry that I can't explain it more thoroughly, but I'm on mobile.. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_temperature

Your definition of temperature is a good interpretation for most uses, but in thermodynamics temperature is defined as the relationship between the heat energy added to a system and the resultant entropy change (T = dQ/dS). In almost any system the addition of heat increases the number of accessible states, increasing entropy and giving a positive temperature. However in a select few, very specific situations we are able to construct small systems where the addition of heat actually decreases the number of accessible states, decreasing entropy, and resulting in a ‘negative temperature’ even on an absolute scale.. My two cents:

In statistical mechanics, temperature is defined as the derivative of internal energy in respect to entropy. There are two definitions of entropy, the Gibbs one and the Boltzmann one [(link to a wikipedia article here)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy_(statistical_thermodynamics)). The Boltzmann one ties entropy to the number of possible microstates with theenergy you want, while the Gibbs one also counts the microstates with less energy than the one you want.  


They usually both result in the "same old boring" thermodynamics, but if you use the Boltzmann definition you might end up with some states whose entropy decreases as the internal energy increases.  


This usually happens when you have an upper bound to the energy which is possible to store on a system, as (in the extreme case) nearing maximum energy means most particles (or most microstates) are stuck in the highest energy level adding zero entropy to the system.  


In Gibbs entropy high energy states still provide entropy for all the lower energy states available.Both "entropies" are compatible with all of physics, as far as I know.. >The definition of temperature is how much atoms move and vibrate and at exactly 0 Kelvin atoms do not move.

Not quite - the actual definition has to do with which way the energy flows when two objects of differing temperature are touching. Hot to cold.

Most of the time that's to do with atoms vibrating but you can engineer situations where energy will flow backwards, basically, and then mathematically the best way to describe that is with negative temperatures.

I don't really get it though. Try googling it!. Wouldn’t they still move due to uncertainty principle?. It occurs in systems with a finite amount of energy levels. Imagine one with a ground state and only one excited state. For this example, consider 10 particles which can be in either. 


At 0K (impossible to reach), ALL of then are in the ground state, it is perfectly ordered (minimum entropy). As you increase the temperature, more and more particles are excited to the excited energy level. This goes on and on until maximum entropy is attained, which is when there are half in the ground state and half in the excited state. This occurs as the temperature goes to infinity (very high values). 


If you add even more energy, those in the ground state will be excited. This causes them to join the other 5 excited ones and disorder/entropy decreases. A negative temperature just means there is a population inversion and is "hotter" (more energetic) than the usual positive temperature we deal with. 


Mathematically, temperature is defined as the rate of change of entropy with respect to energy. In the first instance, as we put energy in, entropy increased (positive temperature). Then we got to a point when it was decreasing, and hence negative temperature. 

Interestingly enough, if you can manage (again, impossible due to thermodynamics) to get all 10 of them in the excited state, you reach 0K (from the negative side of the real axis). I just imagine it as a circle going as (+)0, infinity, -infinity, (-)0.. Not really. If you think of the electrons in a laser as having a temperature, it'd be negative.. Their tiramisu is clearly the hardest hitter :p. Huh, I'm intrigued. Is there an example of a system that can actually reach negative temperatures? And if so, how? . does that mean there is another measure of average kinetic energy that better fits the more usual way people think of temeprature?. Isnt the Definition dS/dE^-1 which is not the same as dE/dS? (ignoring boltzman-constant). How is that measured?. Wow. I tried googling but didn't get much helpful results. I'll look more into it, cuz I'm so curious right now. . Yeah, which is why it's impossible to reach 0 K, I think... . We don't apply temperature to electrons though. That's my point. Sure if we take the concept of temperature and apply it to something else than what it was invented to describe, then of course we could expect weird mathematical quirks to emerge. When the definition of "negative temperatures" states that things with negative temperature are hotter than anything with a positive temperature, and we have such things as "absolute hot", then you know you're way out in the grey area.. Yes this has been achieved experimentally, e.g. [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/1211.0545). It hinges on the definition of temperature as being inversely proportional to the change in entropy with respect to energy. Normally, you increase the energy of a substance and it has more possible states that it can be in and so the entropy increases. However, if you have a maximum energy level, then at some threshold adding more energy effectively piles up the atoms from the lower energy levels into these higher ones as there's nowhere else to go. There are now fewer possible arrangements of the microstates, which translates to lower entropy. That's what a negative temperature means in this context (Fig 1A in the linked paper gives a graphical demonstration of this).

&#x200B;

Edit: Non-technical overview of that paper is [here](https://www.mpg.de/research/negative-absolute-temperature) btw. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_temperature. Something to do with how lasers shot through a crystal can have the peaks and nodes of the laser's light waves line-up with the atoms in the crystal structure, which traps the atoms in place, which halts the movement of the atoms almost instantly and achieves rapid cooling. I don't know if the laser being energetic is what make's negative temperatures "hotter" than positive temperatures, or what's the deal with that.

[Laser Cooling]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=drnq_6ffTbo )

[Negative Temperature]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yTeBUpR17Rw ). No, that definition is just only true for a gas (might even just be ideal gas).

And honestly it probably breaks down in the extreme regions too. Nothing is stopping a gas from getting a population inversion, N2 lasers do exist after all. Actually those are the same. Of course, the reason why they are identical is a deep theorem from real analysis, and not just the "stupid" inverting the "quotient".

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse_functions_and_differentiation. Which part? The heat addition or the entropy?. [Here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yTeBUpR17Rw) an old video on it, maybe you can find more from there.. That is the third law yes.

But that is for an entire system. The system can be designed in ways to achieve localized subzero Kelvin temps, while the general temp never falls below.. Not at all. Sometimes when you get to these really hedge situations things break down, supersonic molecular beams being said to have a temperature being a good example of that, but not here. A lasing medium can easily have over a mole of electrons. All the statistical mechanics mathematical approximations are valid.. It was my understanding that there are infinite energy levels. Why is this incorrect? . Just want to note that when people say lasers achieve negative temperatures, they are referring to the lasing medium.  In order to achieve lasing, there is a pumping procedure that causes an excited to be more populated than the lower energy state ("population inversion"). For positive temperatures, higher energy states ALWAYS have lower occupation than lower energy states, so this population inversion is why the temperature would be negative (more eloquently explain in the comment above about entropy and microstates). All of this is separate from laser cooling, which is a technique that can cool atoms to extremely low, but still positive, temperatures. Huh, very interesting, Ill read up on that.. Heat addition, I think.  I am way out of my league here, but this sure is interesting. . That is a very good video. I understand a bit now. It has also occurred to me that I know fuck all about physics... I'm still in high-school so I don't know enough to argue, but thanks for the lesson today guys! . Yeah technically there are, but within the lowest band the energy levels of the relevant dynamics (kinetic, interactions, and  trapping potentials)  are much less than the gap to the next band.. I’m not as good at this as these other commenters, but I’ll take a shot.  
  
First of all, the negative temperature experiment is only possible in a closed system. It requires a finite amount of matter and a substantial but definite amount of energy.  
  
At the atomic level, electrons have distinct orbits they can occupy. At minimum energy, they only have one possible state. Add energy, they can jump into other orbits.

Imagine four atoms in a box. At first, there is no energy in the box, so each atom is stable in its lowest energy state. None of the atoms can change states without extra energy, so there’s one possible micro state. Now add enough energy to the box to lift one atom into its first excited state. Thermal energy flows freely, so it could move from one atom to another. So there are now 4 micro states, one for each atom that could be excited at any time. That’s an increase in entropy.  
  
Keep adding more energy, you add more entropy as each atom has more excited states to possibly exist in. But eventually, you reach ionization. That could still increase entropy; but you keep heating the box.  
  
There is a big jump in energy from ionization to fusion. So, you eventually get to a point where there is SO much energy in the box that it’s impossible for any of the atoms to exist in any state other than ionized, but they can’t make the next jump either. You are now back to only 1 microstate: all atoms fully ionized. This is how you decrease entropy, which by the definition of temperature, would create a negative temperature.  
  
Someone correct me if I’m wrong. On 16th May 1931 in Oxford, England, Einstein gave a lecture on relativity. This is the blackboard that he explained the apparent expansion of the universe. nan. The power of back of the envelope calculations must not be understated.. The first 3 lines establish an equation for D, the measure of expansion in the universe.
The lower 4 lines provide numerical values for expansion, density, radius and age of the universe.. Just seven lines to explain something as... incomprehensible to my noncollegiate self as universal expansion?

My goodness.... So they didn't erase it? Or did someone just rewrite it on the same blackboard?. Easy for him to say :). There's a similar blackboard in Nottingham, kept in some random class room, unappreciated by most.. Source: https://www.hsm.ox.ac.uk/blackboard-used-by-albert-einstein. What would we save if Einstein was giving a lecture today? His PowerPoint?. Chalkboards became a lot more practical once they invented erasers. so that is his handwriting?. 💚. Where's Will Hunting to solve this while he cleans the floors?. Makes sense to me. So why isn't the third line approximately k\*rho\*P?. This is cool but for someone who doesn’t understand equations in physics I have no idea what I’m looking at haha that being said, thanks to the OP for explaining it. I can't read it. I don't understand Austrian.. Mhmm yes I know what some of these variables mean. Can I see the explanation for a fry hole?. Now that is cool af.. I saw this in person in Oxford!!! So cool!. ...on? with? to?. In conclusion, the jeweler lost $9.. DNE

Does it at least have some glass over it? I can't tell.. Lol if some student unknowingly rubs it out to work on their first year mechanics homework.. I actually have some from my days as a researcher. *shudder*. This was rewritten, right? o_O. I *just* saw this on Rick Steves travel show where he went to Oxford and Cambridge.. The modern phrasing is even less verbose, it's just a single equation:

>ds^(2) = -dt^(2) \+ a(t)^(2) (dx^(2) \+ dy^(2) \+ dz^(2))

This is in the form of a "metric", which you can think of as a more general version of Pythagoras' theorem: given the positions of two points the metric tells you what the length of the line joining them is.

All it means for the universe to be expanding is that the distance grows over time, even if the positions of the points don't change. In the metric I wrote down that effect is what's represented by the a(t) term, called the "scale factor".. He was giving the 2nd of 3 lectures and someone had the good sense to remove the blackboard. It’s currently in the Oxford History of Science Museum. :D. Seen it!  Not unappreciated by those I was with.. [deleted]. They always operated open days out of that room. I think they liked to show it to prospective students.. Plenty of physics lecturer's still use blackboards (or whiteboards). Equations are much easier, as are diagrams. No need to add animations as things happen. Everything is chronological.

Powerpoint is no where near as effective at teaching.. Yeah, same here, I thought everyone in elementary school learned this.. You mean german, austrian isn't a language.. Probably sprayed with something to make it permanent. Not necessarily.  I've seen a few of these, usually covered in perspex.. The theory, or the blackboard?. Copied from notes likely.  It's from a lecture, not him actually figuring it out in the first place.. Eh you'd probably usually include the friedman diffeqs into it no? I mean, I'm no cosmo dude, but I kinda don't wanna rederive it every time.. So it's assumed that all three dimensions expand equally? Just on the basis that we see them doing it billions of years ago?. This is a wonderful museum, and well worth a long visit when visiting Oxford!. This would make sense. I was of the opinion it wouldn't have been preserved, but reading these last 2 comments convinces me otherwise, somewhat at least.. :D^(2). You’re just a chalkboard. Oh really? I never went to an open day. I heard about it from a friend and had to ask three faculty before I could find anyone who knew where it was kept. I think it was Padilla who pointed us there in the end.. Quite so!. [deleted]. Never understood those power points in a physics class. Rewriting an equation works more than a ppt. Obviously a joke. Very cool, but the question stands :D. It's a basic assumption (but also supported by observations) that on the largest scales the universe is homogeneous. If that holds true, then the expansion is guaranteed to be the same in all directions.. I really love all the measurement devices they've got in there. My anger towards your comment=mc^2. Were you also a physics grad from Nottingham? I think when I had my undergraduate first year/fresher induction it was in that room, and it was shown off during the welcome. It's certainly in an obscure part of the building so it wouldn't be a surprise if faculty who weren't involved in first year teaching/admissions didn't know about it.. [deleted]. Some of the best classrooms I've been in have had 4-6 chalkboards with dedicated lighted. Along with projector and smart board. Having the space AND the technology is great. All the important information has digital versions from my experience. Very few profs that want physical copies of assignments even. For math though, chalkboard still beats the shit out of technology. Smart board is okay, until you're working with multivariable equations and shitty trig functions inside of other types of equations. Starts looking like some crazy fraction you look up on Wolfram alpha for the memes.. Eh, you'd be surprised by how many people actually believe that austrian is a language.. I think the point is the answer is no.

But I don't believe that. Does one really think he didn't erase anything or that this was the last thing he wrote? This is a tiny board. Did people there tell him to not erase it? That would be strange.. I know ... all of the instruments with brass tubes and knobs are wonderful!   Here is a photo I took of their microscopes when I was there in 2012.  [Here](https://imgur.com/gallery/qN2EzTP) is a photo I took of their microscopes when I visited there in 2012.. I am from a very heavy computer science background, so my perspective is probably a bit different. A CS lecture which used only blackboards would usually be pretty inefficient.. Until now... yeah, until now, I too thought Austria had its own language.. A doctor once asked swmbo if she spoke Colombian.. I guess it would depend on how much of a celebrity he was at that time. I imagine if feynman had given a lecture in 1980 that a school might immortalize the board. I just don't know. > Did people there tell him to not erase it? That would be strange.

It's not that strange. He was the most famous and recognizable person in the world. He was rightly considered to be the modern Newton or Galileo and that fame only grew in subsequent years. But even as early as 1930 he was incredibly famous and admired. They sold pictures of Einstein in stores.. He was a bit of a celeb when alive, was he not? All it would take is someone to ask him to write or leave it and then they preserved it. Not a big deal. Like an autograph.. Einstein was indeed a celebrity in the scientific world by the time he came out with relativity. However, the concept of relativity when Einstein proposed it was not well received at all. In fact, the concept of relativity was looked at as an abomination by the community of science, a good thought experiment, but simply not how the universe worked, or even could work for that matter.

It wasn't until later, when scientists came up with different experiments that would disprove the preposterous idea that relativity was, that relativity became to viewed as less of an abomination to scientific community. Though relativity was concept scientists still struggled with for years to come (we still struggle with it, but accept it as reality at this point).

In fact, so preposterous was the idea of relativity that Einstein didn't win a nobel prize for it. The scientific community took a **long** time to accept it, and even when the experiments made to disprove relativity brought about evidence that suggested that the universe actually worked by relativity, scientists had a hard time conceding that to be the case. Einstein won a nobel prize for his work on the photoelectric effect.. Feynman would burn the board, like damnit monkeys focus focus. Though Einstein was a bit of a celebrity by the time he came out with the idea of relatively, relativity was very poorly received by the scientific community. It took years for the community to come to terms with the weirdness that relativity was.. "A bit" is an understatement. Fair enough.. Wasn’t he a pissed off in-house patent agent?. I thought so, but erred on the side of caution. Quite sure I recalled photos of him with Hollywood celebs and whatnot, maybe being interviewed. Unlike many, it didn't take until his death for him to be very well known. Lastly, OP specifically said in another comment that it was after his 2nd of 3 lectures there that someone took down the blackboard. I'd have to look it up to verify, but yeah, it's totally believable to me. This was also well after he published his relativity theories. The final form of general was in 1916, 15 years prior. How many times do you think he wrote that?

I disagree with physicsguy24's argument. He said, "Does one really think he didn't erase anything?" To that I say, "Does one really think he erased *everything*?". They even recently found kids handprints on cave walls that are from 169,000-226,000 B.C., the oldest known art. 

OP said someone took down the blackboard after his 2nd of 3 lectures there at the time.. When he came up with *special* relativity he was unknown and working in a patent office, by the time he published his work on general relativity 11 years later, he was a celebrity.. Einstain died in 1955 so 40-50 yrs of being Einstain as Einstain leaves a mark On this day 1908 Albert Einstein presents his quantum theory of light, great day for science, thanks to sir Albert Einstein.. nan. Many don't realize this is what he won his Nobel for.. I don't think he was knighted.. It was 1905 - Einstein’s miracle year. The article "On a Heuristic Viewpoint Concerning the Production and Transformation of Light" received March 18 and published June 9, proposed the idea of energy quanta.. Kinda crazy that it's been over 100 years since then. Great day for science, bad day for students. This reads like a shitpost. Good day for science, normal day for patent office.. Nice to see that Albert finally got a knighthood.. Isn't it crazy that this is over 100 years old?  Think of how much human civilization has advanced in that time and think of all the scientific breakthroughs that have happened, and all the wonderful inventions that we now use in our daily lives that would absolutely blow Einstein's mind.  Then realize how fucking dumb I feel when I try to understand his theories.. Isn't this the photoelectric effect? pretty sure he won the Nobel for this right?. That diagram gives me flashbacks. The photoelectric effect. The last strand confusing us as to why photons behave like particles.. A great reminder that 100 people yelling something is settled is in fact not proof that it is!. What is the picture of?. Actually, Mileva Marić (Einstein’s firts wife) worked with him on most of his discoveries. She didn’t take credit because she wanted Einstain to gain popularity, and then it was too late. She also deserves recognition for all these discoveries, she was also a genius.. What technology came from this discovery?. is there any paper researching the photoelectric effect ? i find it really interesting. This is called the photo-electric effect. Albert Einstein got his Nobel prize for this. It demonstrates that photons can “knock” electrons out of metals, and replace them.. Then everyone stood up and clapped. Einstein goes quantum. A practical question about the photoelectric effect- it would appear to imply that a static electric field would never be adequate to liberate electrons from a metal. Because a static field is the same thing as a dynamic field, with an infinitely long wavelength. And yet, it is obvious that a strong static field can indeed liberate electrons from a metal (spark plug?) Doesn’t that also imply that a very strong field with a very long wavelength can also do so. Am I mistaken? Doesn’t that also imply that low frequency EM waves can liberate electrons from a metal, if they are adequately intense? Yet, that is exactly what the photoelectric effect is said to have disproven, is it not?. Intresting graphic.

When light lenses, it moves based on thought.. Motherfucker got a Nobel prize for a y=ax+b equation.


Wait....is this the scientific equivalent of people pointing at modern art and saying "I could do that" ?. Was this on how an excited particle spontaneously emits a photon to reach a lower energy level?. Is this just the photoelectric effect? Or am I missing the broader implication?. " "Today I have made a discovery as important as that of Newton" Was it possible Planck understood the full implications of the quantum after all? No, he was simply expressing his joy at discovering not one but two new fundamental constants: k, which he called Boltzmann's constant and h, which he called the quantum of action..

Years after Planck's death at the age of 89 his former student recalled watching his hopeless struggle 'to avoid quantum theory'.

It was clear that Planck 'was a revolutionary against his own will' who finally came to the conclusion, "We have to live with quantum theory. And believe me, it will expand." 

The first to 'live with' the quantum was not one of Planck's distinguished peers, but a young man living in Bern, Switzerland. " from Manjit Kumar's 'Quantum'.. OP's probably Indian. That seems to be an idiosyncracy of the English taught in their school system. My exact words after reading the title. Einstein didn't first propose the idea of energy quanta, which was done by Planck a few years earlier. However Einstein was the first to consider it physically, and this paper proved that quanta were more than just a theoretical tool. I'm really confused where the date Novmber 14th 1908 is coming from. When I google it I find articles all over the internet claiming he published something like "The Quantum Theory of Light" that day but I can't find any sources that such a thing exists.. Depends on the reference frame.. Not bad for those students who really love physics.. [deleted]. That scientist’s name? Albert Einstein.. [deleted]. Yes. Quite unusual for someone who was never a citizen of a commonwealth country. Must have been posthumous and fairly recent.. Important to keep in mind that these scientific advances have only made current technology possible.. It's a metal plate it releases electron after absorbing the photon (light particle).. It is the photoelectric effect. Most obvious use is in solar cells and camera technologies. It also contributed to the understanding of quantum mechanics and solid state physics which affects almost all electronics.. The pocket pussy. Solar cells. It is the photoelectric effect, where photons of certain energies can hit certain atoms and those atoms will emit electrons, thus providing current.. Anything wireless, digital cameras, and many many more. Everything.. The photoelectric effect. 

E = ((h*c)/λ) - φ 

Where h = 6.626*10^-34 Joule * seconds

c = 3*10^8 meters / second 

λ = The wavelength of light interacting with the metal 

φ = the bonding force of the electron to the metal. The purpose of physics is to understand the universe, not to make toys. If cool engineering comes out of it, that’s great, but that’s only a side benefit.. Automatic doors and other things that can be activated by the vanishing of light.. Yes, Einstein wrote one... he got the Nobel prize for that. Then later OP made this post about it.. Start at Wikipedia, and move out from there.. The point is that experiments had shown that only light with sufficiently high frequency can eject photoelectrons. The intensity of the light is irrelevant. Einstein hypothesized that light could behave as a particle, and that the energy of such a “photon” is proportional to its frequency. He demonstrated from the data that the proportionality constant was identical numerically to Planck’s constant. The resulting equation 

E = h nu

is properly called Einstein’s relation, not Planck’s.. I don't know anything about spark plugs but I can tell you that a pulse requires high frequency components. If the plug pulses on and off there's your high frequencies...in fact kind of reminds me of the experiment Hertz did to prove EM waves.. Actually he got the Nobel Prize for explaining how electrons can be selectively kicked out by photons of right energies and not for y=ax+b equation. That is only trivial if you know about photons, which he had not before.

Also there is no solid evidence of him having sexual intercourse with his mother.. > Motherfucker got a Nobel prize for a y=ax+b equation.

This is actually funny tbh even if not accurate ;). It is the photoelectric effect, but there's nothing "just" about it. Einstein showing that light being made up of quanta would lead to the photoelectric effect is what started the whole field of quantum mechanics. I love that book. Definitely tops my list for favorite popsci books.. Who was the 'young man' from Bern, Switzerland?. i’m an indian. so basically we address our teachers as “Sir” or “Madam” out of respect, and we rarely, if ever, call them Mr. Lastname. OP calls him sir purely to show appreciation and not to indicate knighthood.. I have a feeling OP is from India or thereabouts. We have a habit of putting the "sir" like that, while also trying to be casual.. You are correct. That was in 1905. His actual writing on it was simple and beautiful and completely clear. The paper on Brownian motion (also 1905) is amazing. He was able to prove the existence of atoms and calculate their size by observing pollen particles moving in water.. He used the idea of a quanta to explain the photoelectric effect.. It was 1905. Here’s a link to paper, translated to English from German 

[On a heuristic viewpoint concerning he production and transformation of light](https://einsteinpapers.press.princeton.edu/vol2-trans/100). What you did there, I have observed it.. Exactly.. ﻿Any community that gets its laughs by pretending to be idiots will eventually be flooded by actual idiots who mistakenly believe that they're in good company.. You might have heard of him before.... [removed]. Anyone from any country can be knighted by the Queen. You’re just not allowed to call yourself Sir. It’s not enforced though obviously.. Photoelectric and photovoltaic effect are actually distinct things. But generally most quantum theory originated partly from this. So nearly all modern technology descends from this.. So what happens after all the electrons are knocked off the atoms? Does the solar cell lose its efficiency?. >Anything wireless, 

That's actually not true. Most wireless things, be out rf waves or inductive charging, work quite well in the framework of the Maxwell equations without consideration of quantum effects.. Thank you for this answer. Pretty sure you don't need the photoelectric effect to invent the wheel.. i guess ill do that :)). Aktchually.

I was referring to the fact that the main result of the photoelectric paper is the E= hf - W. Jokingly.

Then referring to the fact that a simple result might hide a much more profound background. Like in art.

But apparently I have to spell it out. 🤷‍♂️. thanks for clarifying. Einstein himself of course.. /s?. Also not just India, in Uk we do it too. Right, I'm familiar with that paper. Just confused how such a weirdly specific bit of fake news like "Einstein presents quantum theory of light on November 14th 1908" gets propagated. Who gains from this bit of misinformation? I assumed maybe he'd put out a review article or something on that date leading to a misconception, but I didn't find anything. So weird.. See: r/okbuddyretard. r/whoosh - mixed case usually indicates sarcasm. TIL!. This would take millions or billions of years. Lots of atoms.. Did anyone really invent the wheel or did they just go "round rock go brrr!". Or maybe you're just not funny ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯. In the UK, we call people "Sir" and "Madam", but without their name attached, AFAIK.. Well that’s because British English is taught in India rather than American English so you do get differences as stated above. I thought perhaps it’s a typo for 1905 considering the “8” and “5” are close on the numeric keypad. As for the Nov 14th date - I don’t know. Though in the winter of 1908 Einstein was giving lectures at the University of Bern about electrodynamics. So perhaps there was some famous lecture he gave in Nov 1908 and people are confusing dates. Either way this post is clearly incorrect.. If my jokes were funny I would sell tickets, not write them in r/physics. Oh yeah that’s true, wait so do India’s say stuff like “good morning sir Jones?”. I don't know, but no-one in the UK would say that. Even if he was a knight, you'd say "Sir Richard", not "Sir Jones" Our amazing physics teacher (Mr. Burns) created a visualization of two black holes emitting gravitational waves. Thoughts?. nan. The effort of your teacher are appreciable. Not many students get such a teacher.. Is this really how gravity travels? . He probably got the idea from [Steve Mould’s video.](https://youtu.be/dw7U3BYMs4U) It’s a really neat visual aid, and you can see when the shutter speed of the camera lines up with the speed of the rotation and it seems to slow down. Super cool!. In the words of Mr. Burns: Excellent!. That looks fascinating, and is a reasonably accurate visualization I would imagine.. I never met Mr Burns but I have been tutoring his AP C students for 5 years. His physics is good. The demos are good. But the puns are the best! Hope you earned a Smartie or two.. These students look pretty young. What course are you taking that teaches gravitational waves? AP Physics C doesn’t.. How is he spinning his fingers so fast?. What is this?  A black hole for ants?. There’s a really good book (that I helped edit!) that does a good job of explaining gravitation. It’s called Exploring Black Holes. It explains how gravity works from the standpoint of relativity. Another cool one, but more advanced, is Relativity Visualized. . Excellent. (Bridges fingers) Excelllllent.. Dude can move his hands real quick.... Shouldn't he be thinking of ways to block out the sun or at least run that nuclear plant?. [removed]. Can anyone explain why gravitational waves are transverse instead of longitudinal?  Intuitively longitudinal makes much more sense to me.

Like if we take this example gif, I would assume that the height of the sheet here roughly corresponds to the effect on space geometry (or on curved time) rather than any of the 3 spatial dimensions. And that in the spatial dimensions, the effect would just go along the the direction of the wave and is longitudinal there. 

Intuitively I would assume space 'stretches' in all 3 spatial dimensions simultaneously when a wave passes through, not that it stretches one way (perpendicular to the wave) and contracts another. Even having it stretch in all perpendicular directions makes more sense to me. Why the contraction? And which perpendicular direction would it even 'pick'? Does it depend on the rotation plane? If so, how? why?

. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Had Mr. Burns for my earth/space class several years ago. Such a great guy, glad to see he’s still rockin’ it with these demonstrations.. [removed]. What makes Mr. Burns an amazing teacher?. I remember in that “gravity visualised” YT video, one of the students mentioned a mr Burns, is this the same dude? If so he’s Walter lewis levels of cool.. In my mind I initially thought it was him under there doing that with his fingers, then it rapidly stopped making physical sense.. Cool, but pretty inaccurate.. The thing I don't get about gravity waves is how we detect them. Since every detection method, like lasers or whatever (I'm thinking of LIGO) would travel through the compressed space, and be compressed along with it, how do we detect that the space itself is compressed? We can see the ripples in that sheet because the force is moving through a medium which is seperate from our frame of reference. But when our frame of reference IS the medium that is distorted, how can we detect the distortion?

Is it something about observing compressed space perpendicular to the direction of the wave? That's all I can imagine would be plausible?... :). Fūton: Rasenshuriken!. Whoa holy shit!!!. Boo-urns! Boo-urns!. I was saying Boo-urns.... That man has amazing nipples. . You I be wrong thinking that the waves would grow into a more three dimensional pattern as they moved away from the source?. [deleted]. Fairly accurate demonstration. Well done, Mr Burns!. I'm like ah I've seen these before he didn't create anything new, then I actually watched the video and that's awesome! I wonder what one of the ball bearings would do in relation to that. ha I have a physics teacher called Mr Burns but I don’t go to the same school lmao. That’s really interesting though . I thought there was a cat under the blanket at first.. Heey you guys would it be possible to explain me this experience to a poor little biologist who happens to like space ? Thxxx. Videos in this thread:

[Watch Playlist &#9654;](http://subtletv.com/_r8ufypb?feature=playlist&nline=1)

VIDEO|COMMENT
-|-
[Visualising gravitational waves](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dw7U3BYMs4U)|[+574](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1f5wg7?context=10#e1f5wg7) - He probably got the idea from Steve Mould’s video. It’s a really neat visual aid, and you can see when the shutter speed of the camera lines up with the speed of the rotation and it seems to slow down. Super cool!
[Gravity Visualized](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MTY1Kje0yLg)|[+7](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1fjnt0?context=10#e1fjnt0) - This him?
[How Gravity Makes Things Fall](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jlTVIMOix3I)|[+2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1gl7ji?context=10#e1gl7ji) - Relevant video
[Cosmos - Carl Sagan - 4th Dimension](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnURElCzGc0)|[+2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1fhbhm?context=10#e1fhbhm) - This video of Carl Sagan helps visualizing the concept
[Imagining the Tenth Dimension part 1 of 2](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JkxieS-6WuA)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1fq1iu?context=10#e1fq1iu) - You hit the nail on the head.  The medium, if it exists, would practically be undetectable.  I presume the medium exists because space-time is malleable, and this “ether” would be the rigid, non-conforming container, so to speak.   If it indeed exist...
[The Black Hole Machine - Sixty Symbols](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOnoYQchHFw)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8ufypb/_/e1fq8za?context=10#e1fq8za) - Excellent. Get him to replicate this next:
I'm a bot working hard to help Redditors find related videos to watch. I'll keep this updated as long as I can.
***
[Play All](http://subtletv.com/_r8ufypb?feature=playlist&ftrlnk=1) | [Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubtleTV/wiki/mentioned_videos) | Get me on [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mentioned-videos-for-redd/fiimkmdalmgffhibfdjnhljpnigcmohf) / [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/mentioned-videos-for-reddit). Exxxxxcelent. I think Mr Burns must have an amazing “Real Doll” at home. Jussayn. Mr. Burns: „Excellent.“. I thought this was whip cream.. Your teacher when he gets sucked into a reverse timeline by this contraption 

https://imgur.com/r/thesimpsons/kKa4xI2. Damn... What is gravity?. Really damn neat!!!. His two fingers rotate very fast... Boourns!. "Excellent" - Your Physics Teacher. This is definitely coming out of a Japanese horror flick. Just replaces the shapes with faces coming to haunt you through that death portal! . Excellent. . I think the vibrations hitting a normal mode of that drum-structure is a little misleading perhaps. Would each individual black holes spin (the spin centered on it's north-south axis, not sure how else to label it) effect that model?. How'd he do it?. Excellent.... Excellent. Damn, that guy under the table has some faaast hands! :O. As an middle age man I’m wondering how good that would feel on my back if I laid on it. . I want to throw up now. Thanks a lot, black hole. . my tiny high brain is getting blown away by this thread. I gotta take some higher maths.. Excellent. Is his assistant’s last name Smithers by chance. Excellent. Get him to replicate this next: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOnoYQchHFw. THIS IS GIVING ME A BONER MAKE IT STOP!!!!!. What would that look like in 3 dimensions? I get the plane that stars exist on and the “fabric of space” but it dies exist in 3 dimensions. How would all those waves interact in all directions x,y z etc?. Now put some ants on it! Or some snakes! . That shit crazy!
Props to your teacher bro 👍😁👍. That is really cool.  I love to see instructors with such passion.. That is awesome.  I can only imagine the chaos that would happen if you were near it.. A the trough shell set you free.. Excellent . Excellent!. [deleted]. Holy Fibonacci . Exactly..... D’oh! . It’s awesome!. Mmmm... whipped cream . This is why teachers are amazing and deserve all the respect in the world. This is amazing. I’m sure he had to spend his own money to make this contraption to facilitate the learning experience.. Awesome! Also, Lagrange points look EXTREMELY cool when shown in this fashion..... Oddly satisfying - good visualization.. Reminds me of those shitty massaging chairs at malls that you pay $5 for a minute.. My physics teacher sent me and my friend out of the class for asking a doubt...... I’ve never seen a person who can spin their hands that fast, and while laying on their back too! . that is pretty cool. 
. Poor kid sitting beneath, spinning with his fists up.. Amazing!. Excellent. . So much Fibonacci! . Will u plz explain how does it really works?. The children need to stand further away from the point of no return. This is child endangerment . ...Excellent!. That's what two morning woods under a sheet looks like.. That's awesome.... Nice visualization.
But are the waves really like a spiral pattern?
Or more like a "stone in a pond" creating waves  more uniform in all directions. . Very unique . How can I download the gif? . Excellent.. That is amazing. I never thought of it like that. Excellent. Thoughts? Well I know Mr. Burns though it was 


*excellent*. White. Scale wise...helluvan accretion disc comin up🤘🏿🤘🏿🤘🏿. The force is strong with this one. . This is great!. My teacher was like your but we lacked the materials and the rules and building didn't allowed us to do such things :(
But i was wondering, do black hole 'emit' gravational waves? English is not my first language but it just seems off to me . please buy this kindle ebook
https://www.amazon.in/dp/B07CWB47H1/. Oh my god. Brilliant.. I wish I had such a teacher . Los Gatos high?! Big fan of Mr. Burns.. This is an awesome visual! And highly accurate. . I’m always slightly nervous when gravity is taught by putting masses on sheets. It gives a nice picture and - some - intuition of what’s happening. But people can often be caught out because the set-up still involves something distorting in space rather than space itself distorting. But as long as the difference is properly explained - that the sheet is the space and to ignore us as external things - then it’s ok.

That said, this is terrific. . Is it possible to learn this power?. Thoughts? I think that is an awesome visualization and you have a dope physics teacher.

That being said, it is really difficult to quantify or even imagine the cataclysmic nature of supermassive black hole convergence. Yet despite the cataclysmic nature of suppermassive black hole collisions and the gravitate waves they produce, humans didn't actually measure them until very recently! Has your class talked about LIGO?

Thanks for posting! I wish I had a physics teacher as cool as yours!. “Excellent” - Mr. Burns. Release the hounds!. I missed the part where that girl's pants legs got pulled into the event horizon. Can you post full vid please?. Someone help that poor girl, she's been mauled and her pants are ruined.. this technique comes from [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dw7U3BYMs4U) video by Steve Mould. I know it was your teacher, but it's still kind of shitty he didn't give credit.. [removed]. [removed]. Meanwhile our physics teacher giving us questions like: you have bus with 20 students, 10 weigh 65kg and the other 10 weigh 0,007 tons the bus drives at a speed of 70 km/h calculate the mass of the sun. Whose the chick with the booty shorts?. so who's the girl under the sheet and how did she spin so fast. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Do they orbit each other that fast usually?. *Mr. Burns voice, hands held in evil manner*: excellent. u/savevideobot. The literal fabric of space and time. Its awesome. My physics professor did experiments on the ISS and all we got was flat earther rants.

To be fair, they were hilarious rants and led into our lesson on gravitational potential energy, so there's that.. Yes. Gravity is motion. It's just relative to the plane.. Excellent🫸🫷. slow. Very grateful for his presence. . it seems like physics teachers are usually pretty outstanding. My teacher has gone to amazing lengths to ensure that our physics class is as interesting and fun as possible.. Excellent!. Doesn’t work like that for shit he missed a rick n morty or 2 they explain it much better. More or less. Gravity isn’t instant, it’s influence travels at the the fastest speed possible, the speed of light. Since colliding massive black holes orbit each other at significant portions of the speed of light, the influence from just before sort of lags behind and creates a wave. Also, the black holes can drag the fabric of spacetime along with them, which contributes to the effect.. Yes it is pretty accurate. The gravitational field and gravitational waves of course are more complex objects, including the fact that they are in 3 dimensional space, and the waves itself are actually changes in the spacetime metric which is also complex objects in every point of space and time, they can also produce effects that cannot be reproduced by simple scretchy material. But to some approximation it is accurate.. No. It's just a simple visual metaphor. Actual general relativity takes place in 4 dimensional spacetime that is locally flat or Minkowski (i.e. has a 3+1 signature), and gravitational waves are spin-2 or tensor which means that they don't just have an amplitude but also two orthogonal modes of polarization, like light (which is spin-1/vector) but the polarization modes are 45 degrees apart rather than 90. 
. So, gravity itself would just be like the way the sheet dips down when a ball is sitting on it.

It travels at the speed of light.

Gravity WAVES, which are caused when two black holes orbit around each other really fast (and in other cases, but those make the strongest ones) travel like this.. What I have trouble visualizing is how it travels in 3 dimensions.  Maybe it's just an ever expanding sphere itself.. Have you ever heard someone say that the earth doesn’t orbit the sun, it orbits where the sun was 8 minutes ago? It’s because the sun is 8 light minutes from us and the information of the change in gravity takes 8 minutes to reach the earth. So the sun, as it moves through space, is constantly leaving a “wake” so to speak of gravitational waves propagating outwards at the speed of light.. https://www.ligo.caltech.edu/mit/video/ligo20170601v3
Here’s a LIGO simulation of an observed merger, and they seems pretty similar. Of course this demonstration is in 2 dimensions and mass influences 4 dimensions, but this is decent enough for an in class demonstration. . The model states that the loss in potential energy is converted to wave-energy. Otherwise we got energy out of nothing. So the wave should come from the change in orbit of the objects. But in this visualization the waves come from the obits of the "objects".. ...yes . I believe he did. He mentioned that he had seen it somewhere else and wanted to replicate it. . I followed the same path. That was two of the weirdest Purchase Orders I've ever filled out. One from SpandexWorld.com and one for tent poles. 

It's a great demo. What is he using underneath? A drill with something on the end? What's the thing on the end?. I think his looks a bit better since its pushing down on the clothand not up, also its in a color so its a bit easier to see the 'waves' (on camera atleast). ~~shutter speed~~ frame rate. Who’s that student, Smithers?

That’s Homer Simpson, sir, from Physics in room 7G.. I was more of a Professor Snrub fellow myself . Release the hounds!. It's a great way to visualize how a changing quadruple moment can give rise to radiation. Very simple but gives interesting insight, and it does it while looking pretty neat.

It is however a bit misleading to visualize space-time curvature like this. The rubber sheet model is misleading as it only shows a spatial curvature (the curved space does not include time), the curvature is not intrinsic and it is a linear model. Gravity is highly nonlinear, especially a neutron star merger.. I think an issue is that once the waves hit the edges, they come back. That wouldn't be happening as the energy is going out into/through spacetime. But from 0:06-0:07, it appears to be most accurate at that speed of whatever's being used to generate them. We get a nice look at the spiral.. You know I did! Cool to see he’s had such an impact . He’s a very passionate teacher. If you’ve ever seen that 44M view video “gravity visualized,” on YouTube, that was him. That’s why the video looks so similar to this as well. His Twitter is @kilroi22. After AP testing, he teaches a unit on special relativity; yes, the class was physics c mechanics.. > These students look pretty young

how can you tell? i can only see their legs. Is it AP physics C: electromagnetism or mechanics? If it’s the former, of course not if it’s the latter, why the fuck not?. Maybe he’s just demonstrating . Years of training with pussy. It needs be at least 10 times that size!. Excellent . It's not transverse in the same way light waves are (or the sheet, for that matter). One transverse direction contracts while the other expands, and they alternate as the wave moves. The Wikipedia article on gravitational waves has a good animation.

A somewhat cartoony answer is that gravity moves at c, so any potential longitudinal modes are lorentz contracted out of existence. Another is that altering local spacetime volume changes the average curvature, which in turn requires some energy at that location.. Gravitational waves have to preserve volume. For example, if you had a balloon and a gravitational wave passed through it, it would deform the balloon but without actually compressing or diluting the air inside. The balloon's total volume and the pressure inside wouldn't change.

To make sure volume doesn't change, a gravitational wave is always stretching one dimension, contracting another, and doing nothing to a third—which happens to be the direction of propagation. So it's transverse.. [removed]. [removed]. Experience, passion, dedication. He knows how to get everyone’s interest; how to get them listening, and genuinely fascinated about physics. He’s learned a lot about different methods of teaching and he truly has his heart in it. What you see here is just one example. Here is another which you may have seen https://youtu.be/MTY1Kje0yLg. One of the best teachers hands down.. Correct!. Is that the same as Randall Munroe levels of cool?. lewin. you know he’s a creep, right?. Compressing a distance means that light will traverse it in a shorter time.. Because the frequency of the gravitational waves is much smaller than the time it takes for light to travel from one part of the detector to the other.

[Here's the explanation from the people at LIGO](https://youtu.be/iphcyNWFD10?t=5m23s)


. “I was saying Boo-urns.”. It is 3d (all built models are 3d) just mainly on a 2d plane. . You'd call them rotating black holes. As for how, good question for /r/askscience. I bet his wife always has a smile on her face. Hahahahaha it’s powered by a cordless drill, wood and two caster wheels. This is high school physics yo. . Not from a teacher !. [deleted]. The technique of using this kind of fabric to visualize spacetime curvature is pretty common so this idea of using it for gravitational waves wouldn’t be that far off either. It’s likely he just came up with it without having seen the video.. [removed]. Fun fact our teachers name is Mr. Burns. If you haven’t told him this, you should. It would make his day . is it normal for people to wear pajamas to class in your school?. Also tell him that it immediately explained to me why the LIGO and Virgo sensed only one chirp each for the black hole - black hole collapse spotted in 2017.  The gravitational wave crests could be far apart?  Or am I cornfused?. Mine isn't :(. 3/4 of my physics professors sucked. They weren’t physicists, just on campus for research. 
The 4th physics professor though... he was a physicist and had a passion for it. I don’t think I’ve ever had a teacher/professor able to make an entire classroom feel their passion for a subject. . Ye Na, try mine who won’t give me extra help because he doesn’t think I’m smart enough. So instead of actually helping me he just refuses and tells me to revise by myself.... I completely disagree! I have found more often than not that physicists egos get in the way of prioritizing the education of their students ):. Mine (high school) was a fucking douchebag because I was really good in his class and didn't belong to his cult of personality. I think he took it personal that I was a jock and not a sycophant. Fuck you Mr Armstrong!. Beat me to it Mr. Burns.. So just so I’m clear on what you’re saying, the black holes are moving ahead of their individual gravitational influences? And this creates the waves? 

This is a stupid question but what is the medium the waves are traveling through? . So if the sun just winked out of existence, would we still orbit where it used to be for 8 minutes or so? . Well the ripples in this model are not instaneous either. If the video were in slow motion, it would show how the ripples propagate.. How does a black hole's gravity affect anything beyond its own event horizon if gravity has to travel at the speed of light?. So if you were say floating in tbag spacetime drag and didn't die some horrible instant death before you even got to that point, what do they think would happen to you?. So if the sun up and disappointed we'd still orbit where it was for 8 minutes?. So if you could go faster than the speed of light would you create a sonic (gravitational) boom of those waves piling up on themselves? Or even going very nearly the speed of light, your leading edge would be a dense gravitational wave maybe?. Have we more or less confirmed this? Im old I guess. I always remember it being a big question in physics. . | Also, the black holes can drag the fabric of spacetime along with them

Does this mean that a black hole (or some), could potentially, slice? a planet? or cause some type of hurricane? Or destroy one?

Or can it swallow one?

I hope this question makes sense to a physicist.. “The *fabric* of space time” i see what you did there lol

Also, the way you answer this makes me wonder...


What is the medium in which spacetime is able to exist? This is the same medium in which the max speed information can travel is the speed of light.

So much like a bullet in water, would a different medium for spacetime allow light to travel at a different speed?

The universe is bonkers man.. >gravity isnt instant

Is this already been proven as a fact? . I'm sorry but I think that's not correct; one can find an interesting discussion about this on reddit [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/4zwl8e/is_the_earth_pulled_toward_where_the_sun_is_now/).. My physics teacher just showed us Steve Mould's video, but still a great teacher!. I don’t know what he’s using, but if I wanted to build the same thing quickly with off the shelf parts I’d get:

-A piece of bar stock with holes in it already
-A bolt, two washers, and a lock nut that fits the bar stock holes.
-Two plastic spherical drawer pulls that also fit those holes.

Cut the stock to your desired length, with an odd number of holes and file off any burs/sharp edges. Put your bolt with washers in the middle hole and tighten the nut. Put your drawer pulls on either end and tighten. Put the bolt in your drill chuck and tighten. Boom - you’re done.. Simpson eh? . I came for the Simpsons reference, and I have not been disappointed. . This is a good point. I agree that the near-field waveform is indeed non-linear, but wouldn't the far-field become weak enough to be linearizeable?. > how a changing quadruple moment can give rise to radiation

Wouldn't this be a spinning "dipole"? I'm not sure there's a specific name, it's not like an electrical dipole where you have + and -, but 2 monopoles.. I'm just getting into actually understanding math, could you please elaborate on why gravity is nonlinear ? . It still models the propogation of gravitational waves correctly; I believe that was the purpose of this demonstration.. Awesome. I learned special relativity after my AP Physics 1 class. After AP physics C, I learned Fermi problem solving.. I'm trying to figure out what school lets girls ~~where~~ wear shorts that short with their belly showing. . The latter: he’s the type of teacher that teaches everything in an interesting way: cause frankly, it all is.. The AP Physics C Mechanics class does not include gravitational fields in its curriculum and not included on AP test but gravitational fields are certainly an interesting topic. I just finished AP Physics C myself, and my course was a semester of mechanics and then a semester of electricity & magnetism. The course doesn't really go into any kind of waves. Of course, mechanics teaches gravitation (GmM/R^2, integration of gravitational field using shell models sort of like Gauss's Law, mgh, etc.). The focus is on how gravity is a field force and how it affects potential energy as such. The closest we got to describing gravity as a wave was a small footnote by my teacher about how Gauss's Law can actually be used with gravity as well as Coulomb force, which as far as I'm aware is an artifact of that fact that both are waves that radiate out in a sphere (in the model), and Gauss's Law is really an expression of the conservation of energy of that wave. Actual gravitational waves are far outside the scope of the course as they're solidly in the "modern" section of physics where relativity is important, and AP Physics courses are firmly Newtonian for the most part (although AP Physics 2 starts to explore modern physics). . I would gild you for this if I could. Thank you for that laugh. Hmm, I'm afraid I'm not really able to parse your answers onto some intuitive model.. Why would length contraction prevent the appearance of a single oscillating variable (volume) along the wave? The energy answer seems interesting, but doesn't really provide a mechanism either (and I thought gravitational waves carried energy regardless, is that incorrect?)

But my main problem here is that I'm just not really sure how to interpret the simultaneous elongation and contraction along some axis perpendicular to the direction towards the stars. In what way does that relate to anything that's happening at the stars?

From the perspective of the observer, in case of short circular orbits of two massive objects, the only thing that intuitively seems to matter is that the distance of the objects shifts in a sinusoidal way (or does the left-right movement matter somehow?). But how does that result in some kind of warping perpendicular to the wave? How does it even 'select' the angle of this effect compared to the wave? That it has such a thing seems oddly non-symmetrical to me. What about the orbit causes that?

I'd kind of expect that if there were a perpendicular effect, the orientation would be randomized for every particle involved, and so it should all basically cancel out. But apparently that's not what happens. Is there some kind of gravity wave polarization filter? Or am I just fundamentally misunderstanding something here?

. Why must volume remain conserved though? Why is that more fundamental than distances?

But even if I'd just kind of follow you on that one, I'm not really following by what mechanism any form of distance change happens. Volume would also remain conserved if there were lots of little tiny distance shifts at miniscule scales. Volume would also remain constant if we have a distance shift along with the wave and an opposite one perpendicular to the wave. And of course, volume would also be conserved if nothing happened at all. 

So what mechanism causes the entire thing to have one well defined angle that is perpendicular to the wave? Why doesn't the system just spew out a mix of mini-waves with different polarizations?. [removed]. [removed]. Hate to be that guy, but please make sure your parents / other local adults know this, so they'll be more inclined to pass the school budget.. I don't think it does tho? That would violate laws of special relativity?. This is awesome, thanks for the link!. Nothing wrong with making sure the concepts are fixed correctly, first. So often I see people have wrong understandings because of misconceptions as a result of the way concepts were taught in high school. 

As I said, nothing wrong with using these types of demonstrations / analogies. But always make sure the students understand where they fall down as well, prevents a whole lot of pain later on. . There should not be a diffrence in physics no matter what school it's taught at.. I suppose they’d consider it....*does creepy head turn*...unnatural... Why? 

Shouldn't gravitational waves from supermassive black holes be way stronger than medium sized black holes? . Thanks for correcting me!

Edit: it looks like we have observed 6 GW events from black holes, and 1 from neutron stars. Same goes for anyone. Tell your favourite writer teacher or even soccer player you love their work. They mightn’t even read it, and if you’re not even expecting a response, you might be pleasantly surprised if you get one. . Yes. Nothing says I’m cool like being too busy to get dressed.. It's not wildly uncommon to see people wear pajamas _to work_ now. It's the darndest thing.. I think the chirp is the last wave before they merge, which would be the most powerful one. The further we are from it the further apart the waves should be if that demonstration visualizes it properly. If this isn't a good visual replacement for a black hole then I cant say either way.. I hope I'm not your physics teacher lol. Mine was all about vectors vectors vectors.  That's all i remember from high school physics.  That and we had to do the math problems exactly as he taught them... "physics professor just on campus for research"... that... would be a physicist... Almost all university affiliated scientists have to teach classes too. That doesn't make them any less a scientist. In fact that makes most of them not great teachers because they aren't necessarily passionate about education, unlike an actual career educator/teacher. Source: spent 10yrs at uni as a student, am now teaching there.. Tell him to revise his attitude.. Professors often have different views on education of the youth than high school teachers, they’re usually focused on their own research and the teaching is just an inconvenience to them. I live in Alberta, Canada where teachers make loads of cash, but in the States teachers (as I understand it) make basically a pittance, they’re in the role of an educator because they actually want to be.. It’s not a dumb question, The medium is space itself. It can stretch and compressed sort of like how the elastic sheet is in the video, but in 3 dimensions. Everything with mass makes a dent in space, and this is what we call gravity. Two dents have more energy than one, so  objects fall together because the universe always wants to be at the lowest energy state.

You’re essentially right, but they can’t move ahead of their own influence because that would require moving faster than light. As the black hole, or anything really, moves through space it’s influence moves with it. Since gravity moves at a fixed speed, if the black hole is moving fast the gravity traveling in the same direction gets compressed, and behind it gets stretched. When two orbit each other the direction is constantly changing, so it flings out these ripples of compressed and stretched spacetime. This stuff is constantly happening with every single object in the universe, but we can’t tell because the forces are so incredibly mind-bogglingly weak on even large scales.. >the black holes are moving ahead of their individual gravitational influences? And this creates the waves? 

No that would mean the black holes are traveling faster than the speed of light.  

Gravity itself travels at the speed of light.  

So think about you and I standing some  distance apart. I throw tennis balls at you (each ball throw at exactly the same speed and same interval apart).   The tennis balls are our stand in for gravity.  Just a bit of info that says "hey I'm  here".   They convey what mass I have and whatnot.  (And really for gravity it would be like a constant stream of tennis balls in every direction. And you be doing the same, but I'm making this rather oversimplified).

Now if I move away from you as I'm moving away One ball to the next will have a larger interval until they get you than the previous pair.

As I move closer the intervals shorten.

If I can move back and forth fast enough you see a cluster of balls and then a move spaces out set followed by a cluster again.

Like a wave.  Peak Trough Peak Trough etc.

That's  the very very very basic ideas: The information about gravity takes time to get places. (Not that gravity "bunches up" like the tennis balls.)

So something like a black hole moves that quickly (like orbiting another) its getting closer and farther away from you on a rather short timescale.  When its closer its force of gravity is stronger, when farther away its weaker.  The waves occurs because that information on how strong gravity is pulling you doesn't travel instantly.  It takes time to get to you.

Technically everything creates gravity and gravitation waves, its just very massive black holes moving really fast create ones that are much easier to detect.. A very Good read I would recommend that goes into this subject + way more into physics/astrophysics is Astrophysics for People in A Hurry by Neil degrasse tyson and A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking. The first is VERY easy to read and very informative, I’m in the middle of the latter currently. . Well this experiment was used to deduce that light doesn't travel through any medium at all:

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michelson%E2%80%93Morley_experiment

Light can also travel through a complete vacuum without dissipating...

Edit: I was explaining in layman's terms the implications of the M.M. experimental results. How am I wrong to say that light does not require a medium to travel through?. Yeah. Though you'd still see the last light emitted by the sun during those eight minutes so you'd have no way to know.. Yes.

Interestingly, even though gravity propagates at the speed of light, we orbit the sun where it is now and not where it was 8 minutes ago.

Edit: source http://arxiv.org/pdf/gr-qc/9909087.pdf. I'm not a physicist, but I think for all intents and purposes, the sun still exists for these 8 minutes in your reference frame. The event of the sun disappearing simply hasn't happened yet in your timeline.. It's actually important for how gravity works that masses *can't* just disappear, there is no way for that to happen so gravity doesn't need to know what to do if it did. The most you could do is give the sun a big kick off course, in which case we would orbit where it "should have been" for eight minutes. I believe so, yes.. I think he meant that this model is indeed accurate because gravity isn't instant, and ends up creating waves instead of magically propagating everywhere instantly.. Perhaps gravity doesn’t affect itself like it would light. That would allow the gravity waves to get out while not letting anything else out.. A black hole's gravity outside of the event horizon affects other bodies the same way any other star or mass or energy does. If you replaced the sun with an equivalent mass black hole, the planets would happily continue to orbit in the same place. The gravitational waves aren't being produced inside the event horizon and propagating out, though there probably are some phenomenon that are and thus no one in the universe gets to see those. Plenty of ripples are produced outside their event horizons as they merge and those are the ones that propagate out for everyone to see.. Yep. Yes, and we can actually see this happen, it’s called Cherenkov radiation. The speed of light is only constant in a vacuum. In different fluids it travels slower because photons get absorbed by the particles and re-emitted. So when a charged particle travels through the substance faster than light can, it gives off energy as a blue glow.. Yes, a black hole could destroy a planet, and I’m sure many already have. 

If the black hole is typical size and the planet gets close enough, the gravity from the black hole will shred it apart, since it pulls much harder on the side closer to the black hole. Then the matter will flow into the black hole and make it slightly larger.

If it was a super massive black hole, the planet may be able to stay in one piece as it crossed the event horizon, essentially being swallowed whole.

If the black hole was super tiny, much less than the mass of the planet, it could theoretically fall through into the core and eat it from the inside out.

I don’t know about what these would do to the weather, but I’m sure it wouldn’t be great for anyone living there.. > What is the medium in which spacetime is able to exist?

Spacetime is the medium, essentially.. >What is the medium in which spacetime is able to exist?

If you can figure this out you'll get a Nobel Prize. Spacetime just is.. The funny thing is that unlike sound waves, there is no detectable medium for light or gravitational waves. This was tested in the [Michelson-Morley experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michelson%E2%80%93Morley_experiment), which tried to see if the motion of earth the the "ether" affected the observed speed of light. There was no change in speed, so no medium to work in.

Of course, Einstein discovered that it was space-time itself that was deforming to cause gravitational effects, and called it the [theory of relativity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_relativity). Basically, there is no need for a medium at all. But we still use the analogy a lot because it's easy to visualize waves in a medium, whereas it's hard to visualize the deformation of 4-dimensional space-time.. Gravity waves have been measured. This is a very strong indicator that this is indeed a fact.

In the end, all physic theories are incomplete approximations of reality. The question "is that really true?" is an interesting question that drives research. But you can never find out if that is really true. All you can do is verify if your theory makes predictions which match your observations.

For example there is a hollow earth theory which is completely compatible with our understanding of the world. We basically live in the inside of a hollow sphere. All "straight" lines run on circles which go through the center of the hollow sphere and there is a length contraction towards the center. Mathematically it corresponds to an inversion of the universe on the surface of the earth. This description of the earth is completely equivalent to the regular description we have and all the math works out. The math is a bitch, but it works out. 

Scientifically, that theory is not very interesting because it's not falsifiable. Because of the mathematical equivalence, there are no contradictory predictions. So obviously you'll not use the more complicated explanation. Philosophically it is interesting for illustrating and discussing the nature of truth in science.. [deleted]. What’s wrong with Steve Moulds videos for an educational purposes for High School students? . One of the carbon blobs from sector 7G. Yes, that is the basis of linearized gravity, one of the things you learn early on in GR classes (at least in mine). A simple model is a wave propagating in Minkowski space in the form of a sine wave. If you’re far enough from the source, the waves are approximately to good order analytical. . No, the dipole moment is zero because all masses are positive. For a dipole you need one positive and one negative.. "Linear" means (a bit handwaving) that the effect of two causes combined is the sum of the effects of the two causes separately. This is true in the Newtonian model of gravity: For three objects A, B and C, the total gravitational force on A is the sum of what the force would be if only A and B existed and what the force would be if only A and C existed.

However, in general relativity, gravitation is not a force that acts like that; rather it's caused by mass (and energy, or actually more complicated) that bends spacetime. This effect does not have the linearity property. (Although, in most real-life cases you can obviously approximate it as linear, just as you can often approximate it by Newton's gravity.)

As for "why", I'm not sure if there's any better explanation than "Well this model makes better predictions than any linear model we have" or "Well, why would it be linear". . the Einstein equations that describe how gravity works are nonlinear. and the girl in pajamas next to her?  

What kind of school is this? . Why don't you take a seat over there..... wear. There's time after the ap test and before the end of the school year to talk about cool shit.. Thanks !. [removed]. The law is that light always moves at the same speed. So decreasing the distance had to decrease the time for the speed to be the same.. That’s the whole point of education. 

Concepts are taught at a basic level. 
As you progress we correct amend and refine. 
And so on and so forth. 

Edit
Can any one confirm that this is on the US curriculum. If so at what age. . Clearly you’re not a teacher and having an idealistic opinion conflicts with reality. 

Best will in the world you have to 
A) teach what your told
B) be mindful of the time you have
C) refine your teaching and not overload students with information they do not need at that time. 
I don’t start talking about the standard model or the Universal law of gravitation when I’m teaching W=mg 

Case and point. Vectors and forces. 
I don’t really touch upon forces as vectors at an earlier stage. I simplify it (they still are vectors). Two years later I would get students to consider forces as vectors (that the direction affects wether it’s a + or - force) as there will be many examples where we consider many forces in one dimension. 

It’s not so bad nowadays (in Scotland anyway) were we don’t “change the rules” and tell them that what they were taught in the past technically isn’t correct. 

Btw I don’t prescribe to teaching to an assessment but I can’t just teach all of a particular section. Compared to solar-mass black holes, supermassive black holes circle each other at a much lower rotational frequency before they collide. This creates gravitational-wave signals with a frequency for which our current ground-based detectors are not sensitive.. Or lazy and generally not caring about your appearance. Lord knows I've showed up to high school in my PJs at the end of my time there because I was done trying. . Just Alabama ones. Sorry I should have clarified, the 3 we’re not physicists. One was there for some crazy complex 4 dimensional shape stuff. 
One was there to study distant planets, and the last one was an engineering graduate student who was very afraid of speaking in front of people. 
I know they’re way smarter than I but it was easy to see they were not very strong in the physics department. . [deleted]. [deleted]. Can you explain how space is a medium (or link a highly revered paper)? I understand that, mathematically, one can consider spacetime as a non-Euclidean coordinate field. But physically, how can one determine space as a medium?. I can never get my head around these illustrations done on a flat rubber surface like the example here. When a black hole forms, how does it decide what way to 'pull' if you know what I mean? Or is not a 'hole' at all (I always imagine it like a manhole in the street)? is it just an extremely massive small object (singularity) that pulls spacetime towards it from all directions?. Quick idea for an addition to your explanation. This is similar, well, is I guess, the doppler effect we experience with sound. Car coming to you higher pitch going away lower pitch. . Really did learn something reading this, thank you!. I’ve found students understand this if you compare it to a doppler effect.  Which brings up more questions but does help them visualize the compression / stretching of spacetime.. >The medium is space itself. It can stretch and compressed ...

Wait, this very much seems like a kind of '*aether*', doesn't it?
. But if gravity moves at speed of light isn't it constant regardless of perspective? But I guess light can be stretched because of the expansion of the universe? Like without expansion of space time itself would there be no way for gravity waves to exist? 

I have very basic understanding of these concepts so please be gentle . Could I visualize this on a much smaller scale by witnessing a fighter jet pushing the shockwave ahead of it right on the sound barrier?. So, let’s say we have a black hole traveling at 0.8c. The gravity in front of it will be more than the gravity behind it?. So space time can thought of as water and the black hole a boat. So the boat pushes the water forward and behind it the water streches creating waves. Is that a correct way to think about it? Another question. If the black hole was traveling at a slower speed would it still create ways but not as noticeble.. What's the experimental support for this? Ligo?. Is there any significance to the 'resonance'-type phase the two orbiting objects reach at around 0:07 in the video? Any special attributes or effects it would have?. The lowest energy state argument is salient in thermodynamic contexts, but typically two black holes are not seen as a thermodynamical ensemble (unless you are doing some crazy quantum gravity research). The reason why masses attract eachother is actually incredibly challenging to articulate in the strong field limit, but while the black holes are still a dozen diameters apart or so, you can pretend that each black hole is evolving in the spactime generated by the other black hole, and forget about the pairwise interaction. In this case, one would expect the black holes to orbit at a fixed radius indefinitely. However, due to the extreme mass of a black hole, it emits gravitational waves in much larger quantities than a planet or small star ever would. Thus, the local system gradually loses energy and angular momentum "to infinity" which is physics short hand for the rest of the universe that is really far from the black hole binary. This loss of energy and AM causes the inspiral phase of a black hole merger.. I am naive, but this is the speed of causality of the influence in the change in force of the gravity right?. So no risk of a gravity boom (i.e. shock wave). So can you "surf" gravitational waves then?. That experiment was used to prove that if light travels through a medium, then that medium would change based on your reference frame. 

Essentially, it confirmed 2 things that we already know. 1) An observer cannot distinguish one reference frame from another. 2) light always travels the same speed no matter the reference frame.

The latter is simply a more explicit restatement of the former, but may need pointing out.

This experiment shows that the medium that light would travel if it traveled through a medium would have to have the same properties regardless of the velocity of any observer. That is, if your moving it looks the same as if your standing still.

The reason we say that light (and gravity) travel through a medium is because when calculating how they travel through space they exhibit the same mathematical properties as waves we see on earth.

These waves get their mathematical properties from their medium. So it is convenient to assume that light (and gravity) are waves. We do this to make the math easier for astronomers.

WARNING: THIS IS ALL PUT IN LAYMANS TERMS AND SHOULD **NOT** BE USED IN ACTUAL PHYSICSING. 

^(if you want to do real physicsing, your going to have to put in more effort than reading a Wikipedia article, or watching the first half of a minutephysics video.). Gonna need some more on that.  Those two statements seem mutually exclusive.  The orbit is a product of gravity.  And, if the gravitational influence does not arrive for 8 minutes, then how can the orbital position (a product of the gravity) be influenced prior to that.

It's like saying that the light takes 8 minutes to get here, but we're still seeing the sun as it is now, rather than how it was 8 minutes ago.

I'm certainly willing to accept that I have this wrong somewhere, but your statement does not seem logically correct to me.. There would be no way to tell, but since we know the distance to the sun, we know we are observing it our past (according to our proper time).. If it would propagate instantly, the waves would not be even produced. It would be flat without ripples.. Science is so cool. So, what you’re saying is that, it’s possible for all our galaxy and others to be already as part of a black hole, we just don’t know it. Because how would we?

. **Michelson–Morley experiment**

The Michelson–Morley experiment was performed between April and July, 1887 by Albert A. Michelson and Edward W. Morley at what is now Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, and published in November of the same year. It compared the speed of light in perpendicular directions, in an attempt to detect the relative motion of matter through the stationary luminiferous aether ("aether wind"). The result was negative, in that Michelson and Morley found no significant difference between the speed of light in the direction of movement through the presumed aether, and the speed at right angles. This result is generally considered to be the first strong evidence against the then-prevalent aether theory, and initiated a line of research that eventually led to special relativity, which rules out a stationary aether.

***

**Theory of relativity**

The theory of relativity usually encompasses two interrelated theories by Albert Einstein: special relativity and general relativity. Special relativity applies to elementary particles and their interactions, describing all their physical phenomena except gravity. General relativity explains the law of gravitation and its relation to other forces of nature. It applies to the cosmological and astrophysical realm, including astronomy.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28.  You hit the nail on the head.

The medium, if it exists, would practically be undetectable.

I presume the medium exists because space-time is malleable, and this “ether” would be the rigid, non-conforming container, so to speak. 

If it indeed exists, I think the best way to prove this ether would either be to escape the observable universe, or observe it from the 4th dimension... both incredibly difficult and requiring unfathomable amounts of energy, if not impossible.

I think it’s a stretch to say there’s no need for this medium to exist at all. Being able to manipulate this medium might allow someone to harness the power of a black hole. 

As a matter of fact, a black hole might be like a hole in the container, leaking contents of the universe into another realm/dimension from which there is no return(?)

HOLY CRAP INTERSTELLARS ENDING MAKES SENSE NOW. THE BLACK HOLE WAS A TRANSPORT TO THE [4TH DIMENSION](https://youtu.be/JkxieS-6WuA) 


Watch that video before reading below

P.S.


Now if it’s to be believed that the 3rd Dimension is to be “contained” in the 4th just as the 2nd is to the 3rd (with height being the vehicle to enter the 3rd from the 2nd and time being the 3rds equivalent to enter the 4th) then surely the 4th is contained in the 5th, and the 5th in the 6th, etc. until the 10th. 

Outside of the 10th is truly outside of the dominion of all that is, will be, and ever was. Outside of the container that holds all containers.  From here, anything that is a possibility can be manipulated. The realm of God(s), if you will.. Oh yeah the discovery of the wves does suggest that, i remember my physics teacher from uni last year asking us that question at the end of the semester, and told us to answer it ( the newton question of what happens if the sun dissappears) and now just asked us, if the experiment catched a wave, what was oscilating? Spacetime itself? Or the answer for that deserves a nobel?. pi = 3. Engineers?  ^(CONFIRMED)  Yay!. Absolutely nothing, I was just expressing that it was wonderful that his teacher would craft the demonstration for them rather than show the video.. You don't need negative mass for a dipole, just more mass on one side than the other. You would need negative mass to have a dipole *without* a monopole. But due to momentum conservation, there's no way for the dipole of a stationary mass to suddenly change, so there are no dipole gravity waves. No one showed up to your high school in pajamas? At mine that was just called Friday and Monday . Those daisy dukes!. [removed]. [removed]. But is the distance really less? Or just appears less relative to another observer? I guess I'm assuming that space is made up of a field of Planck scale quanta, and you can't make those quanta any smaller right, so for distance to actually decrease you would have to eliminate some of those quanta of space between point A and B? Which I assume also isn't possible? I think part of my brain just melted.. And I disagree with this approach because it teaches many incorrect concepts that are extremely difficult to unteach at a higher level. 

In my opinion it is better to teach the right concepts (if not full maths) from the outset. We assume kids can’t handle it, but I think they can.

As I am currently discussing in another thread, this is why I don’t like the teaching of wave-particle duality. It gives completely the wrong idea and is a real fight to undo.. This is not on any high school curriculum as far as I know. OP said this is for his AP Physics C class, which only covers gravity as a field force and ignores relativity, so this is his teacher going outside the curriculum to give the students a better idea of how gravity works. I can also say with 99% certainty that even if it were in curriculum, it would involve no calculations full stop, and be purely conceptual. . I wouldn’t call your lack of superficial focus, laziness. You’re still doing your official work, showing up to class, fulfilling your responsibility. Somedays dressing up in character just seems unimportant, which it is. What’s it matter what you look like? You still function fine.

Its the ones who make themselves appear the prettiest that have the most problems.

Superficiality is an animal insecurity, and you should applaud those days where it doesn’t waste your attention and time. . Yeah because wearing PJs prevents learning am I right???. Why you say dis. Hey, the astrophysics department would like to have a word with you.. Yeah. They were physicists. You don't have to be a particle theorist to be considered a physicist. . You really don't seem to understand what physics is. The first two people you mentioned are physicists by definition.. I believe you're correct. Should be 4 dimensions - x, y, z, t. Proximity to black holes causes time dilation.. Yes. If you could somehow witness gravity waves in person you would notice time itself compresses and stretches. . I believe gravitational-waves only actually affect the spatial part of space-time, though obviously time will be dilated near the black holes due to their effect on space-time. . Yes. Especially because the dents in time are what gives rise to observable gravity (e.g. keeps planets in orbit, keeps us on the surface etc.). The dents in space are too small to matter much except in more extreme cases.

(It should be noted that it doesn’t make sense to have a “dent” in just one dimension; it’s always one dimension relative to another. Dents in time above means time relative to one of the spatial dimensions.). > Shouldn't it be spacetime?

Well, hang on.

The subject under discussion is the **motion** of black holes and gravity waves. Motion means change of position with respect to time. Time is already implicitly included. So in this context it's quite proper to refer to the medium as being space — rather than spacetime which is a static structure.
. *any* moving object emitting radiation of some sort will produce a doppler-like effect. [deleted]. Essentially spacetime is a manifold and its regions can be compressed and depressed. That means you can have waves travel through it (at speed c, for some reason). At that point, if it looks like a medium and it quacks like a medium, might as well call it a medium. Of course it's not a physical medium as water or air since those exist *in* spacetime.. The properties of Space include the capacity to propagate the various fields in the Standard Model. Empty space has a coercivity and a permitivity relating to the electromagnetic field, for example. The uncertainty relation between time and energy means those fields have a foamlike structure with resonances in the fields continuously appearing and anhilating in a roiling vacuum. To me the fascinating question is why does Space ring or resonate in the self sustaining ways we call particles.

Space is a thing. The absence of Space is nothing. Nothing is a tight squeeze.. I'm not very qualified but I found [this](https://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/public/ask/2580) if that answers any questions. I think it gets a little complicated actually trying to explain why space is a medium. I can't seem to find anything better.. Exactly, it’s just a lot of mass in a very tiny space. It acts exactly the same as any other object with mass, except you can get a lot closer to it. If the sun where replaced with a black hole of the same mass, the only difference we would notice is the lack of light. Everything would still orbit more or less the same. And the black hole would only be about 6 kilometers across, compared to the Sun’s current 1.4 million.. I’m not completely sure, but I think that would be correct. And yes, light does get stretched, it becomes red-shifted when stretched, meaning the frequency gets lower, and blue-shifted when compressed, giving it a higher frequency. The universe is weird.. Yep, that’s the same effect. Only in the case of the black holes they can’t break the “light barrier” so it just gets very close.. The amount of gravitational energy will be more dense at a given distance slightly ahead of the object, than at the same distance behind the object. The total gravitational force will be the same (I think). Like a ship floating on the ocean getting hit by one really tall wave that's only a few feet from front to back, as opposed to getting gently rocked by a wave that only rises a few inches but that whole rise goes on for hundreds of yards.  . Can you explain what I said wrong in my previous comment? Why am I getting down voted?. When I get home I'll link you to the maths, but basically the gravitational interaction also carries the information about the speed of the masses. So while the field needs 8 minutes to propagate, the field also propagates where the sun will be.

If the sun were to magically veer off course, the earth would continue to orbit the position where the sun would have been for 8 minutes.. Gravity is sourced by both energy *and* momentum. This means it's not enough to know just how energetic something is, you also have to know how much of that energy is kinetic energy due to motion (related to momentum) versus other forms of energy (unrelated to momentum), as well as the direction the object is traveling.

So the gravitational field of the sun broadcasts both the sun's total energy and its velocity. When the Earth feels the influence of the sun, it extrapolates where the sun is *right* now by using the velocity the sun was broadcasting. If I send you a text saying I'm 10 km away from but heading towards you at 5 km/h, and you only get the text an hour later, then you can extrapolate that I'm 5 km away from you right now, *assuming nothing else happened to me*.

This last assumption is important. Sometimes the information the sun broadcasts gets out of date by the time it reaches the Earth, and the extrapolation done by the Earth will be incorrect. When that happens, you get a seemingly anomalous behavior of the gravitational field, when the new information reaches the Earth and it has to correct its extrapolation.. Uh, not quite, the planet would be alright at first, but then as it got closer to the center the same would happen to it as everything else, it gets ripped apart and smashed into a single infinitely dense point (we think). 

I guess you could theorize that on the other side of a black hole a new universe may be formed, but it’s awfully hard to tell, unless you jump into one. But then you’re dead anyway so it doesn’t matter.. Yes, spacetime wobbles. Gravity waves are the propagation of distortions of spacetime.

The waves are the first direct measurement. But indirect measurements also support gravitation waves. Twin pulsars orbiting each other shed energy (as evidenced by changes in orbital period) on a way that matches precisely what you would expect if the radiate gravitational waves.. In a vacuum.. c = 1. The Indiana Bill is based on maths. . If pi =3, does that mean today isn't tau day? :(

Wait, no! That means it's Tau MONTH!. Sorry, I missed read your comment. From the teaching perspective though, there really isn't always enough time to do stuff like that. Although I agree, seeing it in person is better, some times the educational youtubers have access to animations that can help make the concept clearer.. public school graduated in 1997.  I think there may have been a pajama day, one day a year or something, but no it definitely wasn't a normal occurrence. 

Ms. Booty Cutters with the mid-drift would of been sent home immediately. . >I guess I'm assuming that space is made up of a field of Planck scale quanta, and you can't make those quanta any smaller right, so for distance to actually decrease you would have to eliminate some of those quanta of space between point A and B?

Whatever quantum spacetime looks like, it's a lot weirder than that. There's a reason from special relativity that space can't be made up of incompressible cells, since length contraction would change the spacing of those cells in different reference frames and violate the principle that all reference frames have the same properties. 

Length contraction and the stretching/squeezing of space by gravitational waves are not just appearances. One of the core ideas of general relativity is that spacetime isn't a fixed background that matter moves through, it's an evolving thing that can expand or contract, bend or twist in response to the presence of energy. . It’s not my approach it’s how most educational institutes operate. Things are taught in sections with their own sets of rules. 

Work is compartmentalised. THANK YOU!!! My wife always asks me how I can wear sweats everywhere, or even pajama bottoms. I try to tell her that it doesn’t matter what I wear, as long as I cover the privates. She does not understand my lack of needing to keep up an appearance. I tell her it helps me weed out all of the people that follow the heard from the people that think for themselves lmao.. I’ve read the last four comments about six times in a row. My brain just folds its arms and goes “nope.”. >Proximity to black holes causes time dilation.

Proximity to anything with mass creates time dilation, but the extent is much, much greater with a black hole.

Edit: We actually have to calculate for time dilation with GPS systems. Clocks in Earth's orbit advance faster than clocks on the ground.. Also the effect of gravitational lensing created by black holes is the result of spacetime being warped around them.  The light being curved around a black hole is travelling in a straight line in 4-dimensional spacetime, but it appears to be travellilng in a curved path in 3-dimensional space.  At least that's how I understand it.  . [deleted]. ...relative to space. Otherwise we wouldn’t notice it. Time curving relative to space is something we can easily observe by dropping an Apple.. [deleted]. The gravitational FIELD is not caused by the "Doppler effect". But the wave is. The wave is caused because the fields location of origin is changing. The way old sirens used to work is basically an exact replica of this visualization. Two speakers rotating around each other, both make a constant sound but it doesn't sound like a constant pitch like a tornado warning would because they rotate around each other quickly.

It's not exactly the same. because the sound itself is already a wave. We can picture the field the sound waves travel in as the air in a completely still room, the wave is then caused by the quick motion created by the object making the sound. Similar to the gravitational wave being caused by the motion of the spinning black holes.. Can light travel through an area devoid of spacetime?

Edit: to whomever is downvoting me, it would help to explain why what I said is not worth asking, rather than simply downvoting.... [deleted]. > Empty space has a coercivity and a permitivity relating to the electromagnetic field, for example.

'*Empty*' space (aka '*nothing*') ... has properties?. Thank you, I feel like I've had a lightbulb moment today, so because its so dense say in comparison to a second object of equal mass that is less dense, you can get a lot closer to the centre of the black hole so the effects of gravity are greater.



. But it gets stretched only because of the expansion of space time itself? Correct? THE FUCK WHY CANT THE BIBLE BE TRUE AND THIS WOULD ALL BE SO SIMPLE . I’ve always wondered what the effect would be if the light barrier were broken. Like the boom from the sound barrier, I bet the light barrier would be something for the eyes to see.. 2 things: 

1. Your misconception about the physics experiment gets on *every* physicist’s nerves.

1. You have a negative upvote value meaning people who would normally not vote at all decide to downvote you. 

I suggest you add an edit explaining your misconception, or delete your comment to minimize bad karma.

EDIT: sorry, didn’t address the first part. You said that light doesn’t travel through a medium when it mathematically does.. Yes, please.  Something tells me it's going to go over my head, but if it advances my understanding, I'm all for giving it the ol' college try.

Thanks!. Your language sounds as if the earth is consciously doing math to consciously calculate its 'correct' orbit? Is it true that all objects interacting with a gravitational field effectively 'do this math' because thats *what* the gravitational field is, and the area of space time they occupy has the influence of the field?

If so might it be more clear to state that 'the gravitational field that reaches the earth encodes both the magnitude of the suns mass and velocity of the sun. Because thats what the field contains, and the earth is embedded in that field, it reacts in such a way to orbit the suns most recently known position by way of the field? . This is some wild wild shit. And there is practically nothing we can do about it. Love it.

Thanks for the chat.. Something something spherical cows. e=2. I graduated in 1995 from public school and no way in hell either of those outfits would have been permitted.. All I remember dress-code wise was if your shirt had drug references or something inappropriate they made you turn it inside out, and there was some western themed day where the poster said no daisy duke shorts. Graduated 2010.. Right! Cool. That makes sense, I did know that come to think of it, about space not being a fixed background through which matter moves. Thanks, good chat 👍. I didn’t say it’s your approach. And I still don’t agree with it. . I think that means you have understood it correctly.. >My brain just folds its arms and goes “nope.”

Your brain does have a point. It literally was not built to think about that. I once read a quote that said something like "Mankind is trying to decipher the secrets of the universe using a brain that was made for telling others where the tastiest fruit grows.". I think it was Terry Pratchett, but I'm not sure. It would certainly fit his style.

\[edit\] I misremembered the quote. u/Lazyphreak has the correct one.. Imagine a 3D grid and then colour the grid. The colour represents the time dimension, if you like.

Not perfect but functional visualisation. Look up 4D plots. Here's something more people should know, and maybe it'll help your bewildered brain a little.

In flat, 2D space, the distance between two objects is determined Pythagorean theorem: 

>d^(2) = x^2 + y^(2)

In flat 3D space, this extends:

>d^(2) = x^(2) + y^(2) + z^(2)

(You might find it rewarding to draw a little diagram and try to prove this to yourself! If you try to do this and get stuck, shoot me a message.)

Let's step back and ask a question so basic you might never have thought to ask. Why is "d," this thing we call "distance," so interesting and important? The answer is, "It's invariant across reference frames." If you're standing here and I'm over there, we might measure "x" and "y" differently. (For example, if I'm rotated 90 degrees then my "x" is your "y".) But not "d." "d" is more fundamental than that. Even if I'm moving and you're not, the same is true.

Now, Einstein (or Minkowski, probably?) discovered the stunning truth. 

In flat 4D spacetime, this formula extends to:

>s^(2) = x^(2) + y^(2) + z^(2) - (ct)^2

We call "s" the spacetime separation between two events. ("Event," you ask? We're not only talking about a point in space anymore: it's a radar blip that only "happens" for a single instant in time.) It turns out that if I'm moving fast enough, I might disagree with you about t as well as x,y,z. Yet, we'll still agree on s.

And if that isn't crazy enough, try this on: this one little minus sign is the *only* fundamental difference between "t" and x, y, and z: not just in this equation but in all relativistic physics. The only difference, that is, except for the constant "c", the speed of light. But if we measure time in light-years and space in years, then c equals 1, so it vanishes from the  equation. So really, c is just a conversion factor we silly humans have to use because we insist upon measuring space and time in different units! And again: that's the *entire* meaning of the speed of light. (At least, until relativity is supplanted by a better theory. But it seems like too good an answer to be wrong, don't you think?)

Now, I should repeat, that's just for flat spacetime. In fact spacetime gets warped, which means this equation changes. Still, I'm at a loss to why people know "E=mc^(2)" but nobody tells them about this: one, or even two, of the 20th century's greatest discoveries.. If your interested in this stuff, a book that breaks it down a little more completely (still can be hard to grasp but that’s sort of the nature of this stuff) is called ‘Death from the Skies.’ It’s really interesting and incredibly informative.. If gravity is the wing of an airplane that is in flight, the air in front of the wing that is being compressed and the air behind the wing being slowed down are x ,y, z, t, Or at least thats the best my brain can imagine.    
Only with the airplane wing, we can see the wing and not the wind, with gravity its the other way around, we cant see gravity but we see what it does. . [deleted]. With the very little that I understand, I think you're right. As the waves passed by the light, you as an observer would notice the light blink faster and slower if you saw it from a distance, as long as you were not in the same wave as the light was. If you are in the same wave though, it would not appear to change, as time is relative.. >wouldn't you feel nothing?

Humans are not point particles^(\[Citation needed\]). You'd notice that your left arm gets stretched while your right arm gets compressed, and shortly after the oposite happens. Of course the magnitude of this effect depends on the wavelength of the gravitational wave, but it's not fair to say that you would feel nothing in general.. It's not that gravity itself can be considered radiation, but gravitational waves *are* gravitational radiation. Similar to how you don't consider the electromagnetic field itself radiation, but electromagnetic waves are electromagnetic radiation.. Gravity is a field, like the electromagnit field. Gravitational waves are waves in that field, and therefor radiation, similar to light waves.. The energy (gravity) radiates out from mass, so I guess so. But not like radioactive radiation.. As someone who has taken quantum mechanics, this is probably a stupid question, but is this also why electromagnetic waves are emitted from atomic structures in the form of a photon? I mean I know its not exactly the same but the rotating charge changes the direction of the E and B fields that appears as oscillation. If this is right I think something in missed in all my classes just clicked. Don't know how a non-spacetime area would even be defined but seeing as how light bends around highly distorted regions of space time (following it's heavily curved path) it would mean it can't enter it, since there is no path into a non-spacetime region, by definition.. You've had this answered so I'll just add that it's definitely a question worth asking. If you haven't gone into the maths these things seem very much not intuitive. If you're interested, [Leonard Susskind has a series of lectures](http://theoreticalminimum.com/) that go into some pretty decent depth into various domains of physics without being overwhelming if you don't quite have the maths background you'd usually need to study the subjects.. > Can light travel through an area devoid of spacetime?

Spacetime is, in one sense, just a coordinate system we use to define when and where events happen. So saying an area is "Devoid of spacetime" is nonsensical because, if a place exists, we can use our coordinate system to measure distances within that place.

Saying spacetime bends is a way of expressing that, within that region of spacetime, straight lines appear bent to observers outside of that region. We therefore bend the coordinate system to reflect that reality.. Can’t travel if time isn’t a thing. . What would "travel" mean if there's neither distance (space) to travel nor time?  

. You’d have to think so. There is no space time outside of our universe yet space and light still expand into it. . It's not quite like that, it's more like: imagine a race of creatures that are 2D, living on the surface of a planet. They're perfectly happy with this idea that they can move north, south, east and west, but they have no concept of up or down. To these creatures, the idea that they might return to their initial position after walking in a straight line is mindboggling, as is the idea that there might be some property of space which might make it take longer to get from lat/long A to lat/long B. To us, the 3D creatures, it is obvious that they live on a 2D plane that is curved into a sphere, and that if a region of the surface is crumpled severely then of course the actual travel distance between two points is longer than the crow flies distance. To us, it is painfully obvious that their entire 2D space is curved in 3D space. 

Think also of the consequences - assuming we can phase through the ground. We have superpowers there! We can: vanish and reappear somewhere else later at will, we can change shape, we can travel to other places on the surface faster than they could theoretically get there, we would be gods of this planet. All because we can clearly see how it bends in three dimensions. Turns out, we're the Flatlanders, just in 3D, and anything existing in 4D trying to talk to us would find it painfully dumb that we can't easily imagine how the very fabric of our reality is bent and curved. 

So, to answer your question: if you were to look at a race of Flatlanders on their planet and go "obviously that's a medium, who could think otherwise", then sure, a 4D creature may well think of it like that. I personally can't decide if I would call it a medium; I think it has more important properties that are higher up the labelling priority list, but it is undeniable that it can act as a medium. . Most likely not. We're 3 dimensional beings, can we see 2 dimensional space as a medium? Additionally, 3 dimensional spacetime isn't quite correct. Time is actually the 4th dimension (at least in the models I'm familiar with), so 3 dimensions would be space and 4 dimensions would be spacetime. . You're thinking of spacetime as some sort of 4-dimensional geometric object, when in reality it's not; it's just that the mathematical model of spacetime uses 4 coordinates in the same way a true 4-dimensional object would require to be geometrically described. But then again there are other areas in which many-dimensional mathematical models arise and yet people do not think that there is an actual multi-dimensiona geometrical object that is represented by the model. It probably happens in the case of spacetime because 3 of those 4 coordinates do represent our actual space. . u/urdnot_bex 
>I believe you're correct. Should be 4 dimensions - x, y, z, t. Proximity to black holes causes time dilation.

This makes me think your wondering is correct and we do. 

I wonder if recognizing a demsion includes one as being of them all. . Yep. The [permittivity of free space](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuum_permittivity) is a constant relating to the way electric field lines occur in a vacuum. In hindsight, though, I probably shouldn’t have said coercivity.

The Higgs field has a non-zero value on average which is a property of space.

Quantum Field Theory reintroduced [ideas similar to the Ether](https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/308413/ether-vs-quantum-field-theory) but no one likes to admit it.

A true nothing would be the absence of space.
. No problem, I enjoy helping out. You got it.. I replied to someone else about it, it’s called Cherenkov Radiation. We often see it in nuclear reactors because light travels slower through water, and charged electrons move faster than the light can so it makes a blue glow.. Speaking as an *actual* (astro)physicist, I'm not annoyed by a misinterpretation of the Michaelson-Morley experiment. 

I *am* annoyed that you're talking down to them when as far as I can tell, you're basically on the same level. I can tell this because you've made several elementary errors.

Light waves do NOT exhibit the same properties as "waves we see on Earth", by which I assume you mean mechanical waves. True, both can be described by the wave equation, but that's like saying electrostatics and Newtonian gravity are the same because you can use Gauss's law to describe them. Mechanical waves require a medium other than vacuum to travel; light can propagate through a vacuum with no problem. They both exhibit wave-like properties (diffraction, refraction, interference), but mechanical waves do not exhibit the wave-particle duality that light waves do, and no matter how energetic they are, they certainly can't pair produce.


When you say waves get their mathematical properties from their medium, exactly what mathematical properties are you talking about? Wavelength? Frequency? Amplitude? Phase? Because none of these are caused by the medium the wave travels in. The medium can *affect* these properties if the wave travels through different media, but whatever generated the wave will determine the wave's properties. An electron changing energy levels will generate a photon of an energy (and therefore a frequency and wavelength) extremely specific to that particular energy level change.

One more thing. Professional astronomers/astrophysicists (they're basically the same) have at the very least the same undergraduate training as professional physicists (we all started out as physics majors). And there's considerable overlap in graduate training, because oh, it turns out we need quantum mechanics and thermodynamics to properly describe how stars work, and oh jeez, we need relativity to describe the large scale structure of the universe, and it turns out that magnetohydrodynamics is super useful for understanding the interstellar medium.. I thought light does not require a medium to propagate through. Am I wrong?. There you go

http://arxiv.org/pdf/gr-qc/9909087.pdf. >	Your language sounds as if the earth is consciously doing math to consciously calculate its ‘correct’ orbit? Is it true that all objects interacting with a gravitational field effectively ‘do this math’ because thats what the gravitational field is, and the area of space time they occupy has the influence of the field?

Objects don’t do math, they just follow the field. It’s true that the field is shaped like he explained, taking momentum (and also stress, in fact) into account. If anyone does math, it’s the field :p. . No problem, thanks for asking 👍. I know... we are having a conversation:). Near a mass a little bit of your movement through time gets warped into movement through space, we call this gravity.. I remembered the quote mentioned from one of the science of discworld books and dug out (maybe) the exact phrasing with some help from Google.

"It's very hard to talk quantum using a language originally designed to tell other monkeys where the ripe fruit is.". How to measure space in years? :o. Thanks for this. 
Excellent username, btw. . The way I like to see this, is that you apply Pythagoras theorem to four dimensions, of which one is time. However, you can't just mix time (seconds) and distance (meter), you have to scale the time component first. Scaling it with "ic" turns out to work.

Btw, this applies in general relativity also, doesn't It?. If we talk about spacetime and its curvature, then gravity *is* the wave, the compression and the stretching too. The very big black holes already curve the spacetime, and we feel that (depending on how far they are), but the interesting thing is, that when they orbit around each other very fast, their effect on spacetime, the curvature changes very fast and in a strange way, so we can detect it.. [Mass *is* (a form) of energy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass–energy_equivalence) (E = mc2, the energy E of a physical system is numerically equal to the product of its mass m and the speed of light c squared.), so we're both correct. To clarify, mass is the energy a particle has when it is at a stand still.

Edits:clarifying. Yes. Even light gravitates. The thing most people talk about when they say mass isn’t the source of gravitation. . [deleted]. Gravity does not radiate out from mass. Mass warps space-time, causing the effect we call gravity. Gravitational waves are local warping in the curvature of space-time that propagate. These gravitational waves are caused by the black holes dragging space-time with them, causing them to lose energy and eventually collide.. you dont lose gravity over time, at least we dont think you do, unlike radiation. You can thing of the gravitational field like a sea of virtual particles that go out in all directions which only are 'real' if they interact with something else. . I think you may be missing something. What rotating charge are you talking about?. Interesting, thanks for the thought.... Thank you!. Omg YES. His videos are truly so awesome. I’m not been very mathy or physicsy, and I’ve been out of college for a while, so these are such a wonderful thing for me. It’s truly a gift to the world. 

It’s funny I found them and watched a ton before I had even realized who he is. . The edge cases always make this an interesting topic for me.  How do blackholes fit into that description of yours?  Within the event horizon, what does the coordinate structure look like?


I've got at least one technical book on the matter but I haven't dug that deeply into it yet.. Or space.

Travel is literally distance over time.  You need both.. Hah hmm. Good point.... This is a very nice answer and makes very true points, but I think it might be helpful to stress that, just because what you’re saying about higher spatial dimensions is true in the mathematical sense, *there is no need for* embedding our 4D spacetime in a higher dimensional space in GR. It may be the case that these higher dimensions exist, it may not, we have no reason to believe one way or the other currently, and GR is consistent with both possibilities.

I only say this because embedding is useful to us as a concept, but it could easily lead to the wrong conclusions. A common question that people ask is “if the universe is expanding, what is it expanding *into*??”, which is a perfectly reasonable question based on physical intuition. The correct answer, that it needn’t expand into *anything*, is often unsatisfactory, and this kind of answer may muddy the waters for people somewhat.. [This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnURElCzGc0) of Carl Sagan helps visualizing the concept. Something's not quite right here. 

We may want to (ontologically) revaluate what we understand by '*empty space*'  and by '*nothing*'.

Typically, to define a block of space as properly '*empty*', it may not contain **any** physical thing ... stuff having physical properties. 

The concept of '*empty*' may only properly describe '*the absence*' of any stuff.

O ≠ something (whatever that thing may be)

If space is indeed some**thing**, something physical, with properties, something that can bend and stretch for example ... then we're reviving the concept of some type of '*aether*'. 

. Saw the edit ('*Quantum Field Theory reintroduced ideas similar to the Ether but no one likes to admit it.*') and ... yes!. If a point in space-time describes a location and time, but QFT says that it also needs these other values (permittivity, Higgs field, etc) to be fully described, does that mean those are dimensions that are needed to describe that point in space? That is to say, if each field value is a dimension, is it correct to say eg that spacetime+higgs field is 5 dimensional? Implying we live in these fields + spacetime, which is actually much more than 4 dimensional?. Interesting. I’ll look that up. Thank you for that info.. Thanks for saying this. I'm a biochemist so my understanding of quantum mechanics is focused on electron energy states.... [deleted]. **The medium that light travels through is space**. It does not need a physical medium to travel through.

Again, this interpretation is derived from the mathematical properties of light, how it reacts to gravity, and how gravity reacts to it. 

. You're not wrong, Walter, you're just an asshole.. I am just stating it as I found it from my own experience and from the experience of teaching first year under-grads (and interested pop-science readers). I guess I have two points. 

The first is to teach the right concepts (or direct simplifications). 

I think wave-particle duality is taught in the chronological way it was discovered, which is not necessarily the best route to understanding. As I mentioned elsewhere, Matt Strassler’s blog shows how you can teach the basics of QFT, with little maths (you could drop it completely) and still teach the right concepts without falling back on fallacies like w-p duality. I’d much prefer we stuck firmly to the right concepts, even if simplified, than teach something conceptually wrong. 

I don’t mind coming back and explaining then how the situation can sometimes look like a wave or a particle. To introduce the original experiments. But don’t start there. It’s much harder to unlearn - many great scientists struggled to unlearn it!

I firmly believe we should start with the basic concept of a field and go from there. Kids are smart enough to get it. I mean hearing things like “the particle interferes with itself” I mean - it’s just wrong and gives them all sorts of confusing mental pictures that lead them down very silly routes when problem solving later. (Of course I don’t want to risk the ire of the different interpretations of QM, so we’d have to decide a standard one and explain that there are different ways to think about it). 

Anyway. If they started with the right concept of a quantised excitation of a field, they’d understand that it’s *like* a particle interfering with itself - so in some situations we can do the simplified maths that way - but that’s not really what is happening. 

It’s why I’m sort of ok with the solar system model of the atom, because it’s a simplification that - in my view - doesn’t lead to serious misconceptions later.
Although it might be interesting to start with the wavefunction and go from there. I think we’re too shy in jumping to the correct concepts. 

Then my second point is analogies. 

And I’m not saying for a second that we shouldn’t use analogies, but you only really understand something when you understand when the analogy falls down. I would say the problem is we’re too happy to accept the superficial understanding the analogy allows, and stop one step too early.

It should be (1) analogy, (2) check everyone understand analogy (which is where we currently stop) then we should add in (3) now discuss where analogy falls down. Point 3 is the real understanding. Problem is we’re too quick to move on to the next topic and leave everyone with a superficial understanding. I’d prefer they learnt less, but learnt it right. . Imagine a stationary isolated mass. As you approach this mass and move deeper into its gravitational well, you experience a proportional increase in the magnitude of time dilation affecting your subjective clock. 

When you come to rest on the surface of the mass, the magnitude of time dilation stops increasing, but persists at the fixed rate corresponding to your now fixed position in the gravity well.

You continue to move through time while being at rest with no movement in three-space, yet gravity and its influence on you and the mass continues to exist.

How does your description hold true in this situation? . [Relevant video](https://youtu.be/jlTVIMOix3I)

. Every time I slightly forget how insignificant we all are, I run into something like this which so perfectly articulates this fact. Great quote.. That's the one! Definitely! Apparently I misremembered it.. The light-year is exactly one year of space (!). Yeah, I'm a little cautious of bringing *i* into it, because it's easy for people to go off the handle thinking of time as an "imaginary dimension." But yeah, it's certainly a valid way to do the math. 

Edit: The term we're looking for is [Wick rotation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wick_rotation?wprov=sfla1). Thanks to whoever just posted another thread about this to /r/AskPhysics, since I was drawing a serious blank.

All of this describes *flat* spacetime according to the theory of general relativity. But that's just what special relativity is: it's the relativistic theory of flat spacetime, whereas general relativity also covers curved spacetime. In curved space the distance formula can be tweaked a little bit: if you travel 1000 miles north and 1000 miles west, you haven't necessarily gone a total distance of sqrt(2,000,000). GR predicts that the spacetime separation formula also changes, and that this is a result of energy (most famously, mass) and momentum in the vicinity.. [deleted]. /r/gammarayburstmemes. No it'd be that the force you feel due to proximity to a charge or magnet of some sort isn't a form of radiation, but there is an associated quantity which is a form of radiation.. Photons are quantum excitations in the electromagnetic field. Their analogue would be the (still hypothetical) graviton. The hierarchy goes roughly like this:

*Fields* can support *quantized excitations (particles)* that can collectively behave like *semi-classical waves.* The field can be the electromagnetic field or the gravitational field or the electron field or..... The particles are the photons, the gravitons and the electrons, and the waves are light waves, gravitational waves and electron waves (in a vacuum)/plasmons (in a plasma or metal). The equivalent would probably be "It's not that the electromagnetic force itself can be considered radiation, but gravitational waves are gravitational radiation" given that gravity is a force (well, sort of, it's really the effect of distorted spacetime on objects, but you can model it with a force). There's some kind of ambiguity on what we mean by "gravity" (do we mean the phenomenon or the "force" ?) but in this context it would be the "force", I think.. It's not equivalent, the statement I made is purely talking about these things as fields, not as quantized fields with discrete wavepackets (like photons). *If* the graviton exists, then the graviton would be to GWs what the photon is to EM waves. I kind of side-stepped your question, but hopefully this helps clarify. . [deleted]. electrons probably if hes alking about an atom. An image that is used to explain the expansion of the universe may be helpful here:

Think of the universe as the surface of a balloon. Now, that's clearly 2D but it's enough for the explanation. Light, matter, energy, are all confined to the surface of the balloon (in our case: the universe). The balloon can "expand" or "contract", local effects can bend the surface, but no matter how much you travel, you can never find the "barrier" that allows you to get out of it, you only see what it effectively unlimited (but not infinite) space.. blackholes are essentially a point in the coordinate structure where it bends such that it asymptotically approaches infinity at the location of the singularity. The event horizon in this case can be thought of as the location at which the slope of the coordinated system is greater than "c".. [deleted]. Quantum Field Theory has been compared to a Lorentzian invariant aether. It can be argued that Space is all there is and what we see as “things” in space (particles) are self sustaining resonances of Space.. Yes. The “degrees of freedom” of a system can be thought of as additional dimensions in a [Hilbert space](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilbert_space).. I apologise if I'm propagating another misconception but:

Can space be considered a medium?. [deleted]. As a victim of being partially educated with nonsense at school (born 1971 Germany) in my Physics courses I am completely with you and agree we should teach our kids the 'real thing' and if a theory is outdated it should be moved from physics to history class, or just act as an introduction into the real topic in Physics.

This said, regarding the given example in this thread, what do you think is (a) wrong in the given visualization, what is (b) an analogy and where does it fall off and what is (c) correct and helps the kids to understand physics right? Passing 30,000 volts through two beakers causes a stable water bridge to form. nan. Is there any other angle that actually  shows what's happening. Not 20 jump cuts per second. . What force is holding the water up?. I'll give reddit gold to anyone that will touch it . More cut scenes = more science?. [deleted]. IS the water flowing?. The comments here kinda tell me nobody really knows how electricity flows.. Is this caused by the polarity of the water molecules, or by the ions in the water (if it isn't pure/distilled)?. Although voltage isn’t really “passed through” things, current is. . So how much voltage do we need to do this to the nearest habitable planet?. Which way does it flow?. If you had enough energy could it be strong enough for something physical to go across the "bridge"?. What happens if you would try to freeze it?. I've seen this before on /r/grool. /r/blackmagicfuckery would love this!. Would it be possible to use this effect to make a water bridge that was several feet across?

Basically, can I build a D&D trap around this phenomenon?  Like set it up so that my players find a stream of water running across a hallway from two holes in opposing walls, and then when they touch it ZARK!!!, dead PC?. Can anyone explain how this works? Or are we just going to argue about the wording of the title and if touching it would kill you? 

This honestly sounds like it could be super interesting so I'd be keen to find out what's going on.

Edit: at the time I posted this I'd just scrolled through and found no explanations - although a few were posted before this I hadn't refreshed the page.. Is it AC or DC? . Can you make this happen on a larger scale?. Cinematography by Michael Bay. [anyone?](http://imgur.com/a/pKZNw)
. It turns out  that this is well understood (mainly) classical physics: electrohydrodynamics. Widom et al. explain it in their article from 2009: "Theory of the Maxwell Pressure Tensor and the Tension in a Water Bridge", available to all on arxiv.org.. Saying volts pass through is like saying height rolls down a hill.

~~Current~~ Electrons pass through, and we call that Current.

Edit: fixed the mistake I made while correcting someone else's mistake.. This effect apparently works really well with oil too: https://youtu.be/_OKOwqzaZp0. It'd be nice if they stopped the fancy editing for two fucking seconds so I could get a clear look at what's happening.. I don't like all the jump cuts.  Makes me think some part of it is faked.. Is it bad that my first thought was "I wanna touch it!"?. The editing here reminds me of a badly edited action movie. I just want one shot, not lots of obscure close ups! . [deleted]. So is there any practical use for this?. Touch it. looks almost erotic. Wrap a magnet around it.. This is oddly sexual. I feel like this should be some sort of breakthrough for discovering how worm holes form. But that's probably the weed talking. . Lady and the Amp.. Why don't you step on it then, Hurley?. ok how did the electricity pass between the beakers which has air *non conductor* between it? can someone explain the set up?. I have nerd tingles just watching this. . ❤️ Physics . This ain't stable, it's shivery AF.. Don't try this at home!. Okay. But would happen if we did this to the Pacific and Atlantic oceans?. [A fine *in vivo* example](https://www.reddit.com/r/bonehurtingjuice/comments/6p253c/parabox/?st=J5KHWY7S&sh=6e0c13e4). I wonder what happens at 29,999 volts . Yeah but how do we know how stable it is if we don't touch it?. i dunno man, it looks like grool to me, not water.. How many angels can dance on a bridge of electrically charged water?. Yawn. Wake me up when they perfect water tentacles. . Could we possibly use this one day?. When do I get my 10 billion volt water bridges I can drive on?. If it was possible for that to be made in human scale (or if you shrunk a human) would it be possible to swim across it? Disregarding the possibility of 30,000 volts killing the human before it swam of course.. Videos in this thread:

[Watch Playlist &#9654;](http://subtletv.com/_r6pj45w?feature=playlist&nline=1)

VIDEO|COMMENT
-|-
[Bryan Mills jumps a fence](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gCKhktcbfQM)|[+7](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqci4t?context=10#dkqci4t) - Straight tooken
[Very High Voltage Using a Transformer to Make Lichtenberg Figures](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFTjFD84Q1c)|[+6](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqepv9?context=10#dkqepv9) - Ask this guy
[The Fourth Phase of Water: Dr. Gerald Pollack at TEDxGuelphU](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-T7tCMUDXU)|[+5](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkq3fr9?context=10#dkq3fr9) - Sorry, don't know why it started right there. beginning of video just raises a question, and he goes into the answers later in the video I believe. It's been a while since I've watched it.
[X-Men (2000) - Storm Electrocutes Toad](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fe32Iag9RCQ)|[+3](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqhsga?context=10#dkqhsga) - I once saw a frog get zapped
[The Jacob's Ladder Scene from the movie Powder.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsNHlDHSrc4)|[+2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqgq75?context=10#dkqgq75) - I once watched a teen get zapped by a bolt of lightning and it lifted him off the ground.
[✅Раздвигаю ВОДУ электричеством ⚡Чудеса с миллионом ВОЛЬТ! Водяной мостик](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OKOwqzaZp0)|[+2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkq902p?context=10#dkq902p) - This effect apparently works really well with oil too:
[Bryan Mills jumps a fence - Extended Cut](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTNLYNkjU9g)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqowi6?context=10#dkqowi6) - Can't forget the extended cut.
[Floating water bridge between two beakers](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC8KDYcdiUI)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqmnb6?context=10#dkqmnb6) - not the same source
[✅Что будет, если пропустить высокое напряжение через масло👾](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8vxO1QbvmYo)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqglvj?context=10#dkqglvj) - This guy would probably touch it.
[The bridge between water and life  Dr. Adam D. Wexler  TEDxStendenUniversit y](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPM1l93mGZw)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6pj45w/_/dkqi4sg?context=10#dkqi4sg) - Water bridge explained
I'm a bot working hard to help Redditors find related videos to watch. I'll keep this updated as long as I can.
***
[Play All](http://subtletv.com/_r6pj45w?feature=playlist&ftrlnk=1) | [Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubtleTV/wiki/mentioned_videos) | Get me on [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mentioned-videos-for-redd/fiimkmdalmgffhibfdjnhljpnigcmohf) / [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/mentioned-videos-for-reddit). Sound, magnetism and electricity have to be hiding so much more to their magnitude in distribution of power.. Reminded me of /r/grool. What about larger application?. Cool, Now what can we do with it? Anything?
. [like this](https://media.giphy.com/media/OuxIUakpsTNGE/giphy.gif). Now that this gif has taught me how water pipes work, I'll just go ahead and do my own plumbing from now on.. Witchcraft!. Water dragon jutsu. Is this happening because of the metals in the water? If not could someone ELI5?. But, volts don't "pass".. What was the TDS...
. Now lick it.. Damn that's cool, but I really want to touch it.... can we measure how many volts it would take to perform this same result but from each side of the distance of the golden gate bridge?. That looks lewd. Maybe water bending and fire bending (or at least lightning bending) aren't so different after all.. You don't wanna cross that bridge.. Mhmm is this r/grool worthy? . How does one "pass 30,000 volts through two beakers?". That was almost erotic. . That looks erotic.. Can't wait til we unlock fusion and just casually use this for fun.
. Thought I was in /r/grool for a second.. does it work with just water? or any kind of liquid?

i wonder if you dye the two beakers with different colors, do they exchange colors when they bridge?

if you put say, coke in one beaker and orange soda in the other, would they merge when they bridge?. Came here fully expecting like a water slinky connecting two beakers in a perfect semicircle.. Are the amps important?. Those are pitchers though. 

Source: i usually get beer in them. Does the water actually flows from one side to the other, or is it just standing still there?. Water bridge explained
https://youtu.be/hPM1l93mGZw. /r/BlackMagicFuckery. If I'm not mistaken I believe that a regular train goes on 10kV AC? Is this gif AC or DC?. So is the water flowing ? So one jug will eventually empty ?. *TECHNICALLY * you don't pass voltage THROUGH something, you apply voltage across something to make a current pass through.... Is 30k the voltage threshold to achieve this or was that just an arbitrarily large number?. I believe this is how Homo Sapiens crossed over to the North American Continent.

Another ***SHOCKING FACT*** brought you you by SCIENCE!!!! . Water....over a troubling bridge. Is there any real world application that anyone can think of?. Wow! Trying to get a handle on how the electrical potential goes from ' I want it!!' to actually building a bridge to get it. It's entropy right? The potential just needs an avenue to entropy and from there anything is possible.. Now kith..... [removed]. I wanna touch it. . /r/wellthatsfascinatingasshit. p-pu-put your dick in it. But... will it hold weight?? 🤔. Upvote if you read it as "breakers" the first time and went back to check after seeing the picture.. L-lewd. As an EE I am required to say: you cannot pass volts through something. 
That is all. Sorry for the unnecessary smart ass comment. . If we get the power up high enough and a larve enough volume of water could I walk on it in rubber shoes?. We need to make this ... BIGGER.  Then, have somebody swim through the bridge.  Insulated swim gear optional.. Must see under a strobe.  . Was it deionized water?. Is water actually being transferred because of the electricity or is it like a circuit closing and the water is like a switch?. Further research needs to be pumped into this. Looks like a possible major breakthrough for humanity in terms of transportation. Thanks for posting, Michael Bay. . can that be used to transfer water trough big distances? like for example, with a stronger voltage, maybe you could transfer water from ie italy to algeria or trough the gibraltar strait, and then to the most poor african countries, w/o almost none cost. Plasma physics would explain that the high voltage ionizes the water and creates a plasma. Plasma does not behave like a liquid, it can behave like a structured gas. Birkeland currents induced in this water plasma can create such a bridge. This phenomenon is very important to an understanding of electrospinning fibers of dielectric materials and suspensions. It was studied extensively by G. I. Taylor and collaborators.. Voltage flows across, not through. /r/oddlysatisfying . Anyone else suddenly really thirsty?. Water is clear so why don't I see the pixies?. /r/grool  ^nsfw. Say you did this on a larger scale some how like hypothetically North America to Europe, you cant walk on it right but what if you put something over it not conductible would you be able to theoretically walk to Europe?. Yeah, but can these magicians turn lead into gold yet? We're all still waiting on that one, ain't we?. [deleted]. The big question is, could you walk across it and not get your cock burned off?. /r/grool. If you touched the stream would it hurt?. Is the water bridge hotter colder or same temperature as water in beakers.. Could you karate chop that water-bridge quick enough and not suffer a fatal shock?. You saw it here folks ! first slidless water slide ! Get your tickets and sign this simple little legal liability waver and we can get this show on the go.. u/savevideobot. So all those characters from Avatar The Last Airbender were just passing hundreds of thousands of volts?. I shall use this to conquer earth.. Why. It's interesting how many things have been found out because someone thought of it I wonder what happened if you do this. Kowalski Analysis. So cool. You'd think this was a Michael Bay shot. . I have no understanding of what is happening because of all the cuts. . not the same source
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC8KDYcdiUI. *Directed by John Woo*. Great question! Surface tension? Magnetic effects? Inquiring minds want to know!. Sorry, don't know why it started right there. beginning of video just raises a question, and he goes into the answers later in the video I believe. It's been a while since I've watched it. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-T7tCMUDXU. [Dark side.](http://static.comicvine.com/uploads/original/6/67602/2026376-sidious_lightning.jpg). Black magic . The resistivity of pure water is roughly 250,000 ohm meters. Assuming this isn't deionized water the resistance may be lower, due to the presence of ions. Using ohm's law you can calculate that this potential difference is delivering at least 0.12 amperes. Anything above 0.1 amperes is capable of killing a human (I believe if the current reaches the heart.) 

Sounds like a good time! 

Edit: I used resistivity instead of resistance and didn't bring the geometry of the water into account, my bad. This is definitely not lethal. Thanks for pointing this out zebediah49.. I touched the gif. . Deal but I'm standing on a big chunk of wood.

Edit: I'm also going to touch someone else.. paging /u/melector. Since the potential is between the two water jugs touching the water arc will worst case zap your finger. I don't know whether the arc forms better with low or high conductivity of the water (whether it's salted or pure), but I'd say it's pretty likely that if your finger doesn't break the connection, most of the current continues to flow through the water which has a lower resistance than skin. 

Edit: Unless one of the jugs is grounded. Bad times then. 

Edit2: Seems like it requires deionized water. The current is so low that probably™ nothing happens. . Hello. How many amps bro, I'll get blasted on my ass but I won't get cooked or burned alive. [OK](https://i.imgur.com/JHeFDhu.jpg). I was gonna say that I assume touching that would be a no no.. That's in the realm of static electricity.  Volts don't kill you, current does.  I'll touch it.. Has anyone actually PM'd you a steam code?. [This guy] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8vxO1QbvmYo) would probably touch it.. Common “plasma sphere” toys use 25,000-30,000 volts and they’re safe to touch. This could be similar, I mean: the water isn’t boiling.. OT: brilliant username. . With 30,000 volts and a current always seeking ground, you have to keep in mind that there is a point at which the human body stops being biology and becomes physics. . me to. lol one time, when I was in high school, I raided my parents liquor cabinet and got tequila drunk at my buddy's. Buddy's older bro had a shock collar he used to train his hunting dogs and he was trying to get my buddy to let him shock him with it. The smart people would have nothing to do with it. I OTOH, enormous show off that I was proclaimed "you guys are pussies" and let him shock me with it. I fell over like I was a tree being saw down. It was not my smartest moment. No idea what kind of voltage goes through a shock collar, but I'm sure it's less than 30K.. Those cuts man. Damn . Three fiddy. Looks like it is, I'm pretty sure it's going from the more filled beaker to the less filled one to balance out. 

If I am right though, the question is what happens when it is balanced, will it just stay still?. This was my question too. I think it is, and that's why one beaker is filled more than the other, but I could be wrong. . [removed]. it's kind of a context sensitive thing based on how you might define things like charge, current, flow, etc. if anything, the comments go to prove that there are a bunch of pedants or people who at least think themselves clever in this sub. go figure.

Edit: Since I've confused what may be an actual nazi, I don't mean this comment to be anti-intellectual. I only attempt to point out that "smart" people are often bad at communication, even with eachother, and especially on the interweb.. Why?. I can guess.

Static electricity exerts force.  Cranking voltage originally probably causes charge to concentrate at the surface and then form an attraction.

Surface tension is relevant in water.

So this phenomena is the reduction of surface tension and electrical resistance simultaneously?. So, wormholes. This can actually be a much harder question than you're making it out to be. I mean especially here where obviously you can't just use a box of electrons to model the current. . It's moving charges. In most materials it's the movement of valence electron (metals, graphite). But it can also be the movement of other charged particles, like ions. That's what makes saltwater conductive. 

The mystery here isn't how electricity flows, but how this bridge is formed. . "nobody really knows how electricity flows"

ummmmmmm where do you think your computer came from? It didn't drop out of the sky. Society depends on literally thousands of people having this understanding.. [removed]. Current isn't really "passed through," charge is.. Voltage across, current through. current is just a measure of passage of charge.

that's like saying, i wasn't hit by the car.. i was hit by its velocity.

it's charge passing through.

you are wrong.. All of it. I think.. you need a naquadah generator

. And that's how all the water left earth and we all died. the opposite of the current convention in circuit theory. until the new way catches on and all EE's go full pedant and cry about how it's opposite again.. Boi . NSFW warning. Eugh. /r/michaelbaygifs. [removed]. Has to be DC. No? AC? Whatever AC/DC. If no High Voltage, definitely on a Highway to Hell.. It’s AC.. I clicked on comments to post the same, but you already did, so - no. . Ignore the ground for now. Suppose you are totally insulated from the experiment and your environment. Your finger disrupts the flow. The water is much less conductive than you, only a portion of the full 30kV are applied to you. Most of the current will flow through just your finger; probably going to give a nasty burn. Much less will flow up your arm and to the rest of you, because those paths are longer and therefore have more resistance. Your heart probably won't palpitate much.

Now suppose you and the positive pole share a ground (charge flows from negative to positive), and the ground is in your other hand. Now the current can skip half of the water by flowing through your chest. You will probably die, at least for a moment.. huh?

the fact that the human's not grounded would allow them to touch this and be fine.. If a properly salty person touched this with their tongue while banging a solid block of NaCl, then yea, probably  fucked. Otherwise you're good; ohmage of DI water is so high, 30 kV ain't gonna do nothing to anyone but the saltiest of dogs. That being said, don't do this at home . No, it will most probably, as it the energy source doesn't have the Energy to kill you. It is the same as being tased.. There's no such thing as a non conductor. With enough voltage, electricity will cross any air gap, like between a cloud and the ground for example.


But in this case, electricity **didn't** pass through the air. 

Ever noticed with static electricity how things with opposite charges attract each other? Well this is what happened.

Once the water bridge formed, electricity is flowing through the water.. Not sure it would kill you, as long as the electricity continues moving you might be fine? I'm no Tesla ofc, but electricity does wierd shit. (wouldnt try it unless I saw someone else first and had a scientist ok it ofc). First of all, you use root beer with orange soda. Duh.. >[**The bridge between water and life | Dr. Adam D. Wexler | TEDxStendenUniversity [17:26]**](http://youtu.be/hPM1l93mGZw)

>>Water is essential to life, to our health, and the stability of our world. Yet a complete scientific description of the material itself eludes us. 

> [*^TEDx ^Talks*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsT0YIqwnpJCM-mx7-gSA4Q) ^in ^Nonprofits ^& ^Activism

>*^1,476 ^views ^since ^May ^2016*

[^bot ^info](/r/youtubefactsbot/wiki/index). PX. Actually, that's how Jesus got to America to create the Mormon storybooks.. Well I'm thinking this is close to the current that makes appendages blow up so... go for it. Record it on liveleak. I want you to, too.. EE?. Larve don't have feet.... Ummm

How are you supposed to set up that current, exactly, with zero cost...

Also electrifying the atmosphere at that scale seems sort of like asking for trouble.. They dissolve into the water. It's very hard to get them dry without pixie dust.. They were hit by a wave of mutilation he other day.. Like frozen water?. [yup](https://www.thoughtco.com/turning-lead-into-gold-602104) . Yes they can. But its expensive.

FeelsRetardMan. I think we need to use something that floats in water probably instead of a rock, maybe a piece of paper or a paperclip though. Touch it.

Go on. Touch it.. Dooooo eeeettt!. Put on your iron lung before entering ride.. Straight tooken https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gCKhktcbfQM. "This is great, but I need more lens flare!"-Michael Bay. Physics undergrad here. Water is already a dipole, which gives it uniform cohesion. It is probably that the molecules of the bridge obtain additional directed cohesion when a stronger dipole is induced in each molecule by the large external field. The solution apparently has minimal conductivity, because some resistance is required to maintain a field inside the solution. If the solution were conductive, the flow of charges would act to neutralize the field, just as in a body of metal. That is to say, adding electrolytes to these beakers would likely break down the bridge.. The problem with TEDx is that just anyone can go up and say anything.  
My crackpot sense was already tingling at 'We don't know why clouds form, the Jesus Lizard can do that, etc.' Got worse at 'scientists don't study water because they think they know it all'. Then it got even worse at 'little known 4th phase explains everything'

... And of course, the nail in the coffin: "Free Energy!" (He claims it's light powered, but then goes on to say that it includes ambient IR and energy can be extracted from that. Thermodynamics do not work that way!). > 250,000 ohm meters

That's a resistivity, not a resistance.

Assuming a 2cm long bridge, with a 1mm cross section -- I think it might be longer and thinner, which just makes this higher -- I get 5 GOhm, which equates to 600nA at 30kV.. It is DC with deionized water.

0.1 A can kill you if that current actually flows through you. Just touching the water doesn't mean that current will flow through you. If you are properly isolated from the surroundings, you can safely touch either beaker. Otherwise, you can still put one at ground level and touch that.

Advisable? No. Survivable? Yes, even without health issues if you do it properly.. so, you're saying i'll be fine if i use the back of my finger?. But I am pretty dam sure that you will not get killed because that energy source wouldn't be able to supply that .1 amps through the resistance of your body, nore is it passing .12 amps through that water.. > Assuming this isn't deionized water the resistance may be lower, due to the presence of ions.

It would significantly decrease the resistance. . I know those words but not in the sentence you used them in.. > Assuming this isn't deionized water the resistance may be lower, due to the presence of ions

Yeah, regular water is thousands of times more conducting that deionized water, that is an isolator basically.

With 30 kV at the output, you touch it and two things can happen, if the power source is powerful enough you start burning and die cooked seconds later (just like a person touching the catenary of a train). If the source is not powerful the voltage will drop and then you can die from a heart arrest (if more than 30 mA flow through your heart for more than a few moments) or just feel a sting if the power source is crap. 

I wouldn't trust crappy power sources either, as any inner capacitor could discharge on touch and provide the current to kill you or give you tachycardy.. Did it shock you?. If you jump into the air and grab a live wire you won't get electrocuted. But then if you land on the ground and you're still holding that wire you'll be blown to bits. I saw it in Tango and Cash.
. not enough upvotes for this comment. I wanna see this.
. You need very pure water. If you put the finger into the bridge you'll probably get some significant current through the finger. That is not good for the finger but not directly problematic if your body is isolated from the environment.. Does your username work? Lol. Is this the start of an epic showdown? This is usually how epic showdowns start. *grabs popcorn*  . haha that guy is hilarious. reminds me of a team zissou production . That's my question . Water flows in the direction of the charge until it has no more water.. See that's the thing. The claim is that the bridge is stable. To me that says absent further explanation, the voltage can be removed, the beakers can have the same water height, and the bridge will remain. That is certainly bullshit as is this gif, absence any more explanation.. Everyone knows that copper wire actually has a water interior. This is why frayed wires don't work - all the water escaped.. Water?  Like from the toilet?
. So similar to Bruce Lee . You're basically on point lol. Nope. The water analogy of electricity breaks down when dealing with even trivial topics like resistance.. Damn I missed the nazi bit, but yeah you're totally right. There are always people (as far as I've seen in the science sections) who think they know enough about a topic to comment, but actually know fk all.. [removed]. What the fk are you talking ab....yes. Yes. Wormholes.. Point is, I see people here describing the flow of electricity different ways and a lot of it is just wrong wrong wrong. Clearly there are people here with no background in physics, but very likely hold a degree in asshattery.. How electricity flows isn't a mystery. It's well documented and understood (at least in "normal" materials). Despite this, people in this thread don't seem to know how current and voltage flow. Or what charge even is.. Jesus Christ you are fking stupid. If you read the beginning of my comment, you'll notice I wrote "The comments here...", implying that people in this thread know nothing about how electricity flows. Was that really so hard?. ? . Charge isn't really "passed through", ... yea it totally is. Nevermind.. Current is measured in amps and one amp = (1 coulomb / second). So current is equal to the movement of charge.. Charge isn't really "passed through," protons and electrons is.. Two down...  hmmm.

Flux inside, Capacitance... underneath?. See how the other guy said this in a way that wasn't unnecessarily shitty and got 70 more upvotes than you?  

Something to consider.. [deleted]. Shit drives me up the wall, and one of the reasons I couldn't do EE. (The other was the two systems Americans have to convert between.). Oh how my ass hurts every time I go between EE and physics classes. Never gonna get used to that arbitrary lunacy . Well you sound like a ~~lovely person.~~ holocaust denier, check his post history.

Edit: and when I posted this, I'd just scrolled through the entire comment section and found no explanations.. What the fuck is a PX and what are you doing in a 6yo post?. With my tongue?. >[**Bryan Mills jumps a fence [0:07]**](http://youtu.be/gCKhktcbfQM)

>>Cutcutcutcutcutcutcut

> [*^MartialArtsFights*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRI-RZS97beAxjW3seCLktQ) ^in ^Gaming

>*^1,569,549 ^views ^since ^Jan ^2015*

[^bot ^info](/r/youtubefactsbot/wiki/index). Is this actually real‽. Can't forget the extended cut. https://youtu.be/eTNLYNkjU9g. > It is likely that the water does not have near total conductivity, because some resistance is required to maintain a field inside the water. If the water were near totally conductive, the flow of charges would act to neutralize the field, just as in a body of metal. That is to say, adding electrolytes to these beakers would likely break down the bridge.

Yep.  This experiment requires very very pure DI water, and one of the biggest issues is that it will sometimes fade over the course of a classroom demo -- If you don't cover the beakers, you get enough impurities from the air to screw up your demo.. Do you think that little dip in the beaker (spout?) provides the–not sure how to put this–the geometric variation that starts the cohesion being greater in one area of the water more than the others?

BTW, thanks!. I just found this http://www1.lsbu.ac.uk/water/magnetic_electric_effects.html. Happy cake day. Could a tiny fish swim through there?. So in essence, the water molecules are turning one way and interlocking? Sort of like how you can lift up a row of interlocked puzzle pieces?. So, how do we build a space elevator using this technology?. I can't tell whether your explanation is correct, but there is a fairly simple way to show a force must exist to support the bridge. Simply use the equation for force: 

F= -grad(E) (you can look up the condition under which this equation applies, but it should be valid here)

where E is the electrical potential energy stored in the water. 

The water in this case is acting like the dielectric of a capacitor; this calculation is routinely done in basic physics courses to find the force pulling the parallel plates of a capacitor together: the shorter the distance, the lower the capacitance C=k.x, thus lower the energy E=C.V^(2)/2=k.x.V^(2) -- so that F=dE/dx=k.V^2. 

Indeed, when the bridge is pulled up it becomes shorter -- so the dielectric path becomes shorter. Thus there is less internal energy stored in the water as the path becomes straighter and thus there must be a force pulling it up! (in fact you can estimate this force using the equation above -- left as an exercise for the reader :) ). You're right, I completely overlooked the units in this. Thanks for pointing it out, definitely not lethal. . Physics! . So you're telling me that you will not die if I was to put my hand in one of those beakers- if the volts applied does not have its current restricted already. I will happily argue against that. . > resistivity, not a resistance.

I've always enjoyed science, but it's this kind of shit why physics and electrical engineering can fuck right off.. > Advisable? No. Survivable? Yes.

I'm borrowing this.. Is it possible to do with AC?. It's 0.1 amp to put down a really weak heart passing through the chest, it's 30000 volts. Volts are a measurable electric force not energy output, volts won't kill you. If they had it on a circuit with more amps those beakers would be molten right now. I assume you'd easily survive touching that if you don't ground it passing through your chest.. > Just touching the water doesn't mean that current will flow through you

Specifically, it depends on the voltage drop over that small section of water that you actually touch, whether you break the stream or not, the conductivity of your finger, and whether the DC voltage source is grounded to the same ground you are/how well you're grounded. Also, the internal resistance of the power supply. The power supply might be able to output 30,000V DC at low current, but may rapidly drop to safe levels if the resistance increases. Basically, a big old circuit mesh full of uncertainty.

Then, how much of the current that flows through your heart determines whether you live or die. (>30mA and blam, you're in for a bad time). So, results could span from a tingling sensation, to burning your finger, to cardiac arrest and death.. Well I mean, the current is always going to try to 'ground' itself. So it'll run through your body until it reaches the ground.. Make sure it's your right hand, it's farther from the heart.. Just tap it real quick should do the trick . What did not shock me was that I didn't get gold. . rip /u/pipsdontsqueak. If it's DI water there should be a stunningly small amount of current flowing (due to the very high resistivity).  Further above I estimated on the order of <1uA.

Assuming your finger is clean, and doesn't break the experiment by contaminating the water, that should mean that if you're well isolated, you could have two bridges going to your finger, using it as a stepping stone.  All the current would flow through the finger, but you wouldn't even feel something in the uA class.. Yep! 6 games in 4 months. What about you?. If its dc its probably only going one way, and would continue to flow, and maybe climb the wall of the beaker and overflow the other.
. Why?
. Ohh that would make more sense. Thanks!. I know you're joking...but would that actually work? How much worse than copper would a liquid cable be? . It's got what plants need!. > anti-intellectual fuckwit

Says the Holocaust denier, /u/akjoltoy. Exactly. Fair point.. Ah yes, the implication. You know, that's a really defensive attitude for someone who's actually wrong. "nobody" is the opposite of "everybody" right? and "nobody here" is the opposite of "everybody here". pretty easy if you ask me. . Actually it is electrons? Charge is just a property of elementary particles. Further down the line maybe someone says "not really electrons, just wavefunctions".... "Current flows this way... well actually, the electrons are flowing *that* way, but let's just say current is flowing this way. To make things **easier**.". Although I seem to remember an exercise that used the average drift velocity of electrons in a car battery/circuit; best I recall the average displacement over an hour was on the scale of centimeters. So can we say it really is passed through? . No it's the current that passes through. Current or Ampére is how many electrons passes through. Then there is the energy of those electrons which is measured in Watts.. The current itself isn't passing through though.. Charge is an intrinsic property of elementary particles, which are actually what's being passed here, due to voltage, with a rate defined by current 

Source: I lick batteries . > ~~protons and~~ electrons _are_

FTFY.. What about memristance?. Tbh I prefer this guy's answer. It at least gives a an analogy to compare to and see how someone can get this simple concept wrong.. +5 . Pixel.. With your eyeball.. No, that dog is animatronic.. college classroom/lab?   
  
feel like 30,000 volts in a high school classroom is asking for trouble lol.. Yep... Umhmm.... I don't know any of these words... The geometry of the field will ultimately be determined by the local geometry of the uniformly conducting mass of interest, so the 'bridging cohesion' won't really care what is holding up the bridge, as that is not local to the effect. However, the beakers do serve the purpose of supporting the bridge. I imagine that such a bridge will always have the same volume of water in it (because the additional directed cohesion must accompany a reduction of uniform cohesion), just that it can be stable at much greater lengths when a greater voltage is applied. If the experimental evidence says otherwise, I can't really guess why.. Omg that's the first time I haven't missed one thanks to you. . The voltage drop across a resistor is steepest where the resistor is narrow. It's going to get zapped (a technical term meaning the local electric field is too high for survival).. Yeah and since they're facing one way they don't stick so much the other way and the excess that are too heavy drain down the sides. . [removed]. [Relevant xkcd.](https://xkcd.com/687/). Fuckin dumbass don't overlook units lmaoo. LOL, guys, this is definitely lethal. Your body is a path to ground, even if you are wearing rubber shoes (rubber shoes simply increases the resistance of your path to ground by about 30,000 ohm). The human body has low resistance like 200 ohm. Wet hands don't have that much resistance either. Add them up and then do ohms law. That's the current flowing to earth through your fingers into your feet. Dead.. But tell me. Can we use it in water parks. Seems like a badass way to make a waterslide of some sort.. I'm assuming they're not talking about the beaker, but instead the little stream of water. Which wouldn't kill you. Might sting a little for a split second. . Cheers, I thought I was going crazy reading these comments.. I'm saying that you almost definitely won't if you put your finger in the bridge.

Putting your hand in the beaker increases the relevant area by a few orders of magnitude, as well as decreasing the distance by at least one.

So to start off with, you're cutting the resistance down by at least three orders of magnitude.  Still probably not enough to be a problem, but distinctly less comfortable.  If you're close to the contact, it won't go so well.

The whole beaker of water is basically acting as a large resistor: it's a big difference between touching the middle and touching the hot end.

----

Of course, in practice it also wouldn't work so well due to your hands being dirty.  As soon as you start sweating into it, those ion impurities will drop the resistivity, which is also bad.. Seems like it applies to marriage. 

Source: am married. . *Stealing. Haha yes!. Depends on the frequency, I would assume . I have never seen it with AC, I don't know, but it looks like there is a reason DC is used.. Definitely need to know what the maximum current output of the power source @ 30000V is. Probably not a lot, or that would be one beefy power supply to be able to output 0.1A at that voltage - that would be a 3000W supply, whoowee!

That said, I would not want to test it out. If you shorted the beakers by wiring your hand in parallel with it - your body is a much lower resistance than that water bridge between the beakers, so more current will flow through your hand roughly equal to 30000V divided by 1/(1/Rbeaker + 1/Rhand) minus 30000V/Rbeaker, or the total current minus the current through the beakers. In other words, that gigaohm resistance has just turned into a kiloohm resistance, increasing the current by a factor of 1000.

. Everyone tells me I'm the least grounded individual they know. Challenge accepted. . So if I stick my dick in it, it will go to ground and not my heart so I'll live. . won't the involuntary muscle contraction make me pull my finger away? so right hand, non-heart side, quick shock but non-fatal(most likely)?. So if you make a tower of hands linking pinkies to thumbs all the way to the ground, you should be able to safely ground the current without it passing through any of your hearts, am I getting this right?. Even if your body completes a ground loop, having a 2.5GOhm resistor in series with your body will drop the voltage you are actually touching to a couple of volts max. So you probably wouldn't need to isolate yourself even if the experiment isn't galvanically isolated. . Since my accounts creation I have probably gotten 30+ games? It's pretty useful for folks like me who really can't afford to buy games whenever they would like. I don't agree with that statement because I'm under the impression that the water tension would not be enough to withstand a negative delta E
Sorry I'm drunk don't know if this makes sense let me know so sober me can reassess . The electrons moving along the current cause the water to want to bond in that direction? I don't know much about chemistry, but chemical bonds are formed based on electrons in atoms filling the orbitals in neighboring atoms, or something, right? 

Someone more sciencey than me should get in here and correct me.. Pure water is a tremendous resistor. As in, 10^18 times more resistant than water. Even sea water is 10^7 times more resistant than copper. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrical_resistivity_and_conductivity#Resistivity_and_conductivity_of_various_materials   

So to answer your question, no it would not work.. Yeah, it would work. It would just be quite a lot worse. We use copper because it's a really good conductor. Even salt water isn't nearly as good of a conductor, let alone fresh water.. Like exponentially worse. It depends on the ionic composition of the water. If it's distilled, there would be no current. If it was, say, tap water, there would be a massive amount of resistance compared to copper but there would still be a current. The distance the current would be able to travel and end up with a respectable amount of power at the end is very short. (We're taking a few inches to feet).   Wiring a house with water would be unrealistic and useless. There are ways to increase the conductivity of water by adding different ions to it but (as far as I'm aware) there would be no way to create water able to even compare to a conductive solid, such as copper.  
TLDR; a lot worse 

Note: not a scientist. Just took chem 🤷🏼‍♂️. Terrible. And even if you used ionized water, it'd start to convert to hydrogen and oxygen gas as soon as you applied a voltage to it.. Ionic conduction can work, but the use of water is a no no you can conduct with things like molten salts.. Fish fuck in it!. That person has literally been several people over the course of his life. . Well it seems English isn't your first language.. Water is an ionic conductor, electrons don't move through it like they do in metallic conductors.. The speed of electrons during current flow is actually surprisingly slow! It's the electric field that carries the current (so charge is right, not electrons)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drift_velocity

From their example, 1 A of current through copper, the electrons move 23 microns per second or 8.3 cm/hour. In contrast, "electricity" travels at 50% - 99% the speed of light.. something something quarks . Never got why that is still a thing. We've know that it's wrong for ages so why not change it!. Electrons can move so slowly because they are so small.  Many of them flow through a cross section in a small time interval.. I specifically said charge, not electrons, because electron drift velocity doesn't necessarily equal current.. Since it's water isn't it ions that are being passed through (positive ions one way and negative ions the other)?. Nope electric current in water consists of the transport of ions from dissolved salts. And if there is a concentration of H+, protons are moving around. . Owww my eye 👁️. 30kV is nothing as long as you make them stay in their seats. My high school physics teacher 10 years ago did ~100kV demos where he'd zap a metre stick into splinters.. In the late 80s our high school physics labs had several powerful lasers. Our teacher lived 5-10 miles away on a hill. He stuck it on his deck, pointed it at the school and there was a 5 foot diameter red dot painted on the side of our gym. Like "blind you if it hits your cornea at close range" powerful. 

So we're in class doing some project when my lab partner basically sweeps the beam across the room in the faces of all the other students. She may as well have been waving a shotgun the way everyone reacted. . I think you'd be absolutely shocked at the electrical potential that causes you to spark your finger on a doorknob on a dry day, then.

Potential on its own means very very little.. 30k volts at .01mA is only 3 watts.  the higher voltage is only dangerous for its propensity to overcome and travel over resistant objects.

I create voltages upwards of 50k in my classroom on static electricity alone.

I know this is an old post, couldn’t help myself.. As someone halfway through my physics undergrad I can understand but do not think I'd of been able to explain it all as succinctly as you have, thanks for the writeups . That is so fascinating. Thanks for sharing your knowledge on the matter.. Amusingly, that's not likely the biggest issue -- the bigger problem is that the fish is such a good conductor (in comparison to the water) that it will screw up the bridge.

So while it might be 20kV across that bridge, the fish will just short it out.  That water bridge is a Gohm-class resistor, so the insertion of the kohm-class fish will just shift the potential drop to being across the rest of the water.

Of course that ignores the part where the fish will rapidly destroy the experiment by releasing impurities that increase the conductivity of the water, causing the bridge to fall apart.. don't know man..  can't shake the feeling that a tiny enough fish wouldn't cover enough voltage differential between the ends of its body to get zapped.
. I don't think V=RI is applicable outside conductors (I don't think it's applicable here in the case of a dielectric). For example, you can have a voltage gradient in vacuum. In general voltage is defined as V=integral(E dx).

That said, dielectrics can serve analogously as "conductors" of electric field not as a function of their conductivity, but as a function of their permittivity: the field lines concentrate along a path where permittivity is high (pictured [here](https://qph.ec.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-a152320130389eeef6a2a12858dbe978)) -- thus large electric fields are indeed expected inside the bridge.. With your dingaling. That got a well deserved sharp nasal exhale, good play. . Not if you use your right hand. Well... possible, but less likely. The point is that you're in series with the water, which is a Gohm-class resistor.  Touching the power supply would be a Bad Idea, but touching the bridge would still leave the whole beakers worth of water between you and the power supply.  Given taking into account their much larger geometry, you're looking at tens to hundreds of megaohms between you and the voltage supply.. ecco the dolphin sky tubes.. Wheee..... *power goes down* *back up generator fails* Aaaahh. *falls into well placed pool under the slide* Wheeeeee! . Can confirm. Was married. . I'll, um... give it back later?. When the voltage drops to 0 in the AC cycle wouldn't the water drop? And if the frequency is high to better utilize water's inertia, I'm thinking the molecules might not have time to polarize and provide the cohesion effect (their polarization provides the necessary high relative permitiivity for the effect to occur). There may be a goldilocks frequency giving enough time for polarization but fast enough to prevent the water from falling.. Well, the power supply won't deliver a high current for a long time. For how long will depend on the power supply, and that's probably something you don't want to test with your hands.. /r/shittyaskscience. As an added bonus, it'll sterilize you, preventing those pesky kids from ever occurring.. probably wouldn't kill you but would definitely hurt like hell. (unless your hands were to touch something grounded ... then your fucked)
. 30kv isnt something you want to touch with any current above microamps.. I mean, you're not wrong, and if for some reason you ***have*** to barehanded check if something is live, backhanded is the way to do it. 

But, here's the thing. Electricity moves at a significant percentage of the speed of light. Your muscle contractions, not so much. 

So in a high amp setting, you're just as dead, cause the damage is gonna be done almost instantly. 

I would imagine there's a zone where it is relevant, but I'm not really well versed enough to speculate where that is and if it'd apply here.. I'm sure there would be muscle contractions but you'd have to ask a biologist for specifics. If a path through your heart is favorable to any other path the current may take, then there's not much you can do about it. There have been people struck by lightning that have survived due to being struck in the arm or leg and having the current travel around vital organs. Again, I'm not entirely sure about the biology side of things but, would not recommend. . [deleted]. I mean, you're not wrong, and if for some reason you ***have*** to barehanded check if something is live, backhanded is the way to do it. 

But, here's the thing. Electricity moves at a significant percentage of the speed of light. Your muscle contractions, not so much. 

So in a high amp setting, you're just as dead, cause the damage is gonna be done almost instantly. 

I would imagine there's a zone where it is relevant, but I'm not really well versed enough to speculate where that is and if it'd apply here.. nice try. you will be paralyzed. your finger won't go anywhere. and you will die.. Exactly. I'm from Czech Republic, and our pay is pretty low compared to say, Germany, while prices for things like games are the exact same. So the niceness of other people helps a lot. Plus I discover tons of neat games I wouldn't find otherwise!. What about water with bits of copper in it?. Then use mercury.. So if I'm 70% water, does that mean fish fuck in 70% of me? I kinda feel violated.. That is why electicity cannot conduct in distilled water. It's normal water with tonnes of contaminants that can conduct electricity.. I did not think about this. Thanks for pointing it out, but still electrons have to move in order for the charge to move. The whole ion has to move in order to transport the charge.. **Drift velocity**

The drift velocity is the average velocity that a particle, such as an electron, attains in a material due to an electric field. It can also be referred to as axial drift velocity. In general, an electron will propagate randomly in a conductor at the Fermi velocity. An applied electric field will give this random motion a small net flow velocity in one direction.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.24. > (so charge is right, not electrons)

Electrons carry the charge, so both is right.. Nope, quarks stay in the nucleus. So unless the current is made up of ions..... > quarks 

Leptons, you savage. Not to mention they'll collide and interact with the conducting material . Protons still don't move though. And he had a grammar mistake.. Deionized water here. You get H3O+ and HO- moving around.. Yep. I was wrong. I guess that's why salty water is so much more conducive.. that's awesome. and i'm def just getting old.. I once watched a lightning bolt zap a tree into splinters. Nature is lit.. how do you get 100kV in a classroom?!. My physics/electronics teacher had a book full of circuits for students to make. A few of them had high voltage taser circuits that a student or two made. I made an ionizer that was pretty high on the voltage. . If the laser's as powerful as you say (I'm assuming class III based on your description) your teacher is really to blame for not having everyone use the proper PPE.  That's basic optics lab stuff: wear your goggles if the laser is on.. Cleaning windows on a construction site in a dry climate on a recent hot day, I peeled a thick sheet of plastic off glass and got a shock at the ball of my foot, through a new rubber-soled shoe.. >absolutely shocked   
   
:/  
  
now i'm reading about electrical potential...:(. just 25 thousand volts in a static electricity discharge.. It was an awful lot of hand waving, but it did the job. One of the skills most time - consuming to practice and time - saving to exercise when learning a science is that of writing well. One of the most effective ways is re-writing drafts from the ground up. Begin by reordering and trimming every small phrase possible for brevity of each semantic. A lot of this work can be done with find - and - replace, because many key patterns should just be omitted or uniformly replaced. Many patterns are treated differently ~~for different~~ among sciences. In physics you will often use

"the fact that" - > "that"

"if x then y" - > "x causes y"

"y has negative gradient in the direction of x" - > "additional x gives less y" 

Now omit every time you repeat yourself about anything. Your text will be so terse that it may have to be read multiple times to be understood. Then reorder and trim sentences until every semantic in each paragraph is delivered in intuitive order. Then reorder paragraphs so that your paper is a non - stop highway straight to your point. Books make time for dabbling, good science writing just makes you read with comprehension. . I thought about that too, but then I realized that is not the total voltage over the organism that kills, it's the voltage over each cell. That's pretty much the same as saying that the E-field intensity is the real killer. . Vacuum is ohmic. V=IR applies whenever not considering semiconductive materials, that is, ohmic materials. There are no semiconductors here.. Ooo eee ooo aaah aaah. Why has nobody said anything like "r/bonerhurtingjuice". im sat in a cafe eating breakfast on my own and bacon just came out of my nose. 'dingaling'. . You're right. I overlooked the resistance of the deionized water causing a MASSIVE voltage dro3p. Cheers.. That, but for people . And 45 feet in the air.also laser lights . Let's throw in some drops into various depths of water, then maybe have a high drop area too. . I used to love playing Ecco as a kid on my Sega. Death is the best sterilization . Fuck those pesky kids. Snot nosed brats, I say! Snot nosed brats - all of them! . [deleted]. I think that comes more in terms of recovery.  Consider that a defibrillator basically zaps someone's heart, giving it a "reset" -- the heart starts going again on its own.

So you 1. want to avoid a path through the heart, and 2. don't want to get stuck continuously electrocuting yourself , and 3. really, *really* don't want to get stuck continuously electrocuting yourself with an alternating current that will totally confuse everything.

Number 1. is avoided with the use of a single removed body part while not well grounded, 2 and 3 are avoided with the backhand thing.

Also, a big part of backhand is comfort, not safety.  The kind of things you're testing that way probably aren't going to kill you, but they probably will hurt.  You want that to be minimized.. there is nothing i'll be holding though as it is just a stream of water. and the back of the finger is an old electrician trick because in the event of shock your finger will curl towards you and away from the current.. That'd be a pork stew.. Same story.. [deleted]. Only 70% violated!. It is in this case.. [deleted]. Protons don't move in a solid.. Entire atoms move in an ionic conductor, like water.. I think literally every single biological function involving ion transport would like a word with you. . It's just following the grammar of the previous comment lol.. >i'm def just getting old

That's just what happens mate. Sorry about the hearing loss.. I had a science teacher in middle school who would casually throw fireballs out into the room to get the attention of the class. . [I once watched a teen get zapped by a bolt of lightning and it lifted him off the ground.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EsNHlDHSrc4). > Nature is lit.

Both literally and metaphorically😂. [Ask this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFTjFD84Q1c). He went to school at JPL. Duh.. Lots of double-adapters . [deleted]. I looked at for a map. Oh yeah. No goggles for anyone. Just "that will burn your cornea. Don't point it at anyone."

But this was the 80s and I'm pretty sure he was blasted out on coke all the time. 

We would tape up the holes in those plastic dry cleaning bags and fill them with gas for the bunson burner and release it with a lit fuse. 

All supervised by the teacher of course. . Yeah, 3000 volts per millimeter of arc length. So, a centimeter-long arc is 30 kV.. still not giving up on the fish.. couldn't we save it with the skin-effect or something? . It could be an interesting experiment to perform with tardigrades.. How is vacuum ohmic? V=IR doesn't apply in vacuum. There is no 'resistance' value for vacuum. Do you think vacuum dissipates energy as P=V^(2)/R too? That's absurd: the electrons have nothing to lose energy to. Resistance requires an atomic lattice to provide constant drift to electrons when an electric field is applied. No such thing in vacuum. Ideal dielectrics share a similar argument.

Regardless, your calculation (dV/dx = I/sigma) simply fails in vacuum (and ideal dielectrics): clearly there is no current flow for low voltages well below breakdown (thus dV/dx = 0 everywhere), but of course there must be a voltage drop. What explain the voltage drop are the electric field lines which integrate to integral(E dx) = V. Those lines are concentrated inside the dielectric.

You can also consider the static case of a single charge in vacuum (the one you learn from basic electromagnetics course): a single charge has a field |E|=kq/d^2 and potential V=kq/d, while obviously no current is flowing anywhere (since the whole system consists of a single charge in vacuum).. Ting tang walla walla . 🅾of. [deleted]. Gold's actually worse then copper, silver is the only common element with a higher conductivity. Golds only used for connections as it doesn't corrode easily.. Well it can be both a proton or a proton and two electrons. And it won't move with the "electricity", too massive (i believe).. Yeah. I kinda got that wrong. Still in high school after all so there's some stuff I don't really remember during summer break.. What?. i built a trebuchet in physics.  
   
there's a level of danger and then there's thing inherently dangerous. 
   
having something that cranks that wall socket up to 30k-100kv seems like something a kid could play with if he could get hands on it. 
   
i've heard stories of guys taking the defib paddles from an ambulance and 'shocking' themselves. often dying. . I once saw Scott Baio get zapped and it gave him super powers.. Hilarious but a health and safety nightmare. Is he dead yet? :/. Can confirm that we calculated it a few years back. Our vandegraaf topped out at 40 kV. Haha, every time I hear about highschool in the 80s it sounds crazy.. Skin and flesh do not conduct as well as blood. About the only thing you can do is put it in a Faraday cage. . Bing bang!. You're* (⌐■_■). [deleted]. Sorry my comment was probably not at all helpful. The point is that electricity doesn't have to be electrons, there's no reason you can't have protons flowing. When water conducts electricity you don't have free electrons flowing through the water, you have charged ions flowing between the electrodes. . To be fair, if he ever forgot to shut off the master valve on the gas lines any student who turned the valve on the desk could have reproduced what he was doing. He always turned off the master valve though, so we never had the opportunity. Great power, great responsibility, dead uncle stuff. . [I once saw a frog get zapped](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fe32Iag9RCQ). It's all theatrics and everything is staged. He knows exactly what is "safe" and what is lethal. Every time he makes a "mistake" he explains what he did wrong and what the dangers are.. Was thinking about the skin effect in the water bridge.. if it were iron for example, and frequency high enough, all the current would go through the thin layer on the surface of the metal an none of it through the interior. Don't know about water though.... I had a blue house with a blue window.. I don't know anything about electronegativity but as far as wires go I know copper and silver are better then gold.. What happened to it?. That works in uniform conductors. Because a fish represents a non uniformity that won't be entirely the case. I would expect any current to prefer the fish over the skin of the bridge. .  The same thing that happens to everything else.. That would hold water if the fish was in contact with the skin of the bridge. If it is dead in its center though, wouldn't it kind of be in some sort of that faraday cage you were mentioning?. The current preferring the skin of the bridge is not due to a reduction in resistance; it is due to magnetic effects from the flow of charges. Those effects, you'll find, are strikingly weak with respect to current's preference for low resistance.. i thought these magnetic effects increase the resistance of the inside of the conductor, leaving only a thin layer, the skin, electrically conductive. Skin depth depends on the frequency of the current among other things (properties of the material) so perhaps there's a frequency where the skin depth for water is small enough for the fish to have room enough to swim through. wikipedia just says 0,25m for 1Mhz and i'm too lazy to do the rest of the math. I'm reading that it only works in good conductors, so you'll not be able to do this because the bridge requires an insulator. The current doesn't redistribute much because there isn't much of it in the first place; barely enough to kill. Pen ink on a leaf zooming through a puddle. nan. what's the reason for this? something to do with surface tension?. Here is a link to my comment on the main thread which includes link-caption to a Khan Academy video. It basically involves a difference in surface tension between the front and back of the leaf “boat”. 

https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comments/arhwhf/comment/egnuaox?st=JS8ZY5XY&sh=6aa620ed. You can do the same thing with a drop of dish detergent.  Has to do with disrupting the surface tension of the water.

I will say though that the ink seems to do a better job. 

Note that you likely won’t be able to do it more than once to the same puddle.

For those curious.  Fill a bowl with water, pour in a bunch of table pepper and use a toothpick dipped in dish detergent.  Same principal.  Good bar trick. Toxic?. u/GifReversingBot . Isn’t this littering? :). We used to do something similiar at summer camp. Find s tiny twig and "pop" the resin blisters in the outside of balsam fir trees. Gather as much resin on the stick as you can and then set it in thr water. Twig zooms off like a little motorboat.. This reminds me so hard of Liu Cixin Book, The Death's End. . And that's what Liu Cixin was thinking when he wrote Death's End I guess. What a genius.. Quite beautiful . Jokes on you egghead,  that's cheetah blood!. What kind of big ass puddle is that.. That contamination was worthy. How does that work?. Wouldn't that be considered as magic centuries ago? . You just revolutionized bug civilizations.. That's some Neil deGrasse Tyson shit right there... So the leaf is being pulled by the water and not pushed by the ink thats intersting . There are a number of half-explanations in here, so I'm gonna try and get some way toward a satisfactory explanation of what I think is going on here. 

The best analogy I can think of is that of a rocket engine; in which the combusting gases expand as they leave the engine. In the same way, the ink expands across the surface of the water as it runs off of the leaf. This expansion occurs (more or less) equally in every direction, including toward the 'front' of the leaf. Hence, the expanding ink results in a pressure that pushes against the leaf, propelling it forward. 

The natural funnel shape at the back of the leaf also helps to create a directional flow - in much the same way the conical shape of a rocket engine directs the expanding gases downward, rather than outward, hence we see a sort of 'trail' of ink behind the leaf, rather than just a big circular splodge.. Cool and artistic! It kinda looks like something from a movie's title sequence.. my day is saved. oh, wow!. This is the effect sci fi movies should use for a ship at warp speed. . Doesn't seem like a great thing to do, putting ink into a natural water source. . So ink has a lot of potential energy in it? Relative to just a leaf.. Yes, it's surface tension.

It is called Marangoni effect, the ink has a lower surface tension and lowers the surface tension behind the boat, the water in front still has a big surface tension and "pulls" the boat forward.

Nicely explained here:

[https://www.khanacademy.org/partner-content/mit-k12/mit-k12-physics/v/the-marangoni-effect-how-to-make-a-soap-propelled-boat](https://www.khanacademy.org/partner-content/mit-k12/mit-k12-physics/v/the-marangoni-effect-how-to-make-a-soap-propelled-boat)

It has next to nothing to do with "diffusion" or "directional flow" or entropy like said in the other comments. (And I don't think you can even use entropy in open systems like this)

&#x200B;. Going out on a limb here, but cos of the differing densities of the ink and water and because there are also miscible, they diffuse into each other, causing propulsion due to equal and opposite forces thingy (someone remind me which law that is again). . [deleted]. The second law of thermodynamics implies that entropy will increase over time.  Spreading out the ink increases entropy.  Because the ink and water are not miscible, the ink will remain on the top of the water while spreading out.  This generates propulsion in the plane of the water's surface due to Newton's third.  
  
Experimental edit:  try this with other immiscible liquids, such as oil, with different densities and surface tensions.  You should see a similar effect every time.  Notice how when the leaf is held in place, the ink shoots out in a jet.  You can see this same effect when a drop of oil falls on water's surface (albeit radial when the leaf isnt present to funnel the jet).. Why is pepper necessary? . Putting a drip of detergent in the eye of a bread clip works pretty well too. . There probably aren't enough glycols in that amount of ink to be toxic, but still wouldn't recommend introducing that into an ecosystem. Cool example of physics, though.. Here is your gif!
https://imgur.com/ABHQobf.gifv

---

^(I am a bot.) [^(Report an issue)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=pmdevita&subject=GifReversingBot%20Issue). Ah the good ole’ arrow of time. I think so too. CURVATURE DRIVES. This is not even a half explanation. The leaf is actually dragged forward by the higher surface tension of water, compared to that of the ink - the Marangoni effect. Nothing at all to do with a rocket engine, or the shape of the leaf. Google "camphor boat" of you want to see a toy example.. No, it disrupts the surface tension of the water. khanacademy.com

Nice. You can do the same by cutting a notch into wooden matches and rubbing soap in the notch.. Wouldn't this be analogous to how warp drive is supposed to work then? That was almost too rhetorical a question, so I'll just answer it. Yes - this is analogous to how warp drive is supposed to work.. this might be a completely stupid question, but why would diffusion cause propulsion?. > equal and opposite forces thingy (someone remind me which law that is again). 

Newton's 3rd

&#x200B;. Sorry, your limb broke. This is not the right explanation.. Think it’s Newton’s Third. The 3rd i think. > equal and opposite forces thingy (someone remind me which law that is again). 

For fuck's sake, if this is what earns upvotes in fucking /r/physics, humanity really is doomed.. why would that cause the propulsion of the leaf in that manner? why would the ink make it move forward like that?. So you can see what's happening.. Literally just did it after reading, the pepper zooms away from the toothpick. It’s just inverse of the leaf.  . Let’s clean the oceans up with leaves!. Yeah, I never claimed to _know_ what was happening, I said I was going to explain what I _think_ is happening. Regardless, what I've described above and the Marangoni effect are one and the same. Whether you want to describe it as the "water pulling" or the "ink pushing" is besides the point. It's the fact that the ink spreads out across the surface with a gradient at the boundary between the ink and water that causes the leaf to move. The shape of the leaf still helps to determine in which direction ink flows off of it, if it flowed off the side of the leaf then the leaf would move sideways.

Obviously it has nothing to do with rocket engines. That's why I used the term 'analogy'.. Which would require an energy input. Thats how propulsion often works. A material goes through an expansion and as it diffuses toward a less-dense space it propels its original container. The densities differ, so you have an exchange of molecules of different sizes. Momentum has to be conserved so you get a change in velocity due to the exchange.. Fuck do I know lol, maybe because of the differing densities again. I read the crosspost parent and it said something about surface tension, so that probably your safest bet. . Yep I'm stupid. Yeah mb

. Is not just about knowing physics, its also helping others who want to know more. Don't gatekeep science. No, it's not the same. The movement of the ink isn't causing propulsion. . it's not gatekeeping, it's maintaining a certain level of rigor... that is necessary for science. it's not even a correct explanation lol. this person didn't try to know more, they provided a ridiculous and wrong answer, and couldn't be bothered to look up Newton's laws.  Thinking we shouldn't be upvoting that nonsense is not fucking gatekeeping.. Definition of "propel":

> drive or push something forwards.

In what way is the ink not propelling the leaf? The leaf moves, ergo it is propelled.. End of the day, upvotes mean nothing and you can take this as an opportunity to teach, not push away. End of the day, upvotes mean nothing and you can take this as an opportunity to teach, not push away. The leaf is being pulled by the water, not pushed by the ink, ergo it is not being propelled. . i think the average reader who is looking for an answer to this question will naively assume that the highly-upvoted posts are correct and may not even read the next level of comments to view the correction. better to use upvotes/downvotes to sort out quality and correctness in discussion. upvotes do matter in terms of communicating consensus.

but besides "upvotes mean nothing", i do agree that every opportunity to teach should be embraced! Perfect wave diffraction at the tip of the wave breaker. nan. Now we only need another hole in that breaker and we can start to fight over interpretations of quantum mechanics. . Explain this like I'm 5 please. . hmm, I thought wave diffraction required an opening (slit) on the order of magnitude of the wavelength. I guess that's only required for symmetric diffraction.. I've used this principle to get my radio signal to diffract off the top of a mountain range and down into the adjacent valley!. r/waveporn. breakwater, not wave breaker.  cool pic!. I used google maps to zoom out and look at where all the sewage is coming in from before i go to a beach. wave action becomes quite interesting when you realize there are thousands at the beach swimming in poop. . Wow, I remember being confused as hell with diffraction in physics 3. Seeing this so plainly observable is so cool . Ok. So it just stops the boat area from getting torn up. 
That makes so much sense now that I think about it. People and property, explains all the wave crashing photos with no docks anywhere to be seen. 

Thanks. TIL. They must have pretty great WiFi there.. This seems to be a similar effect that happens to winglets on an airplane. . Landlocked Canadian. Wtheck is a wave breaker? I get it from the context. But why? Where? What does breaking the wave accomplish? . Just the tip... Source?. How is it perfect? Looks like a pretty low level of temporal coherence to me. The concentric wavefronts are related to a relatively high spatial coherence of the waves incident on the edge and the relative sharpness of the edge itself, but spatial coherence on its own doesn't automatically guarantee that you'll have a nice diffraction pattern -- here, the diffraction pattern is not visible at all.. [deleted]. What?. Statistical interpretation makes my brain itch.
I’m so glad I passed my first quantum mechanics exam. Eli5 if you don’t mind?. Waves a pilot waves, fish are electrons.. Sure, just don't observe it.. In the Quantum World, there are no real waves. The "wave" or State Function represents the state of a physical system, not any oscillating physical parameter. The state function is the repository of statistical information on physical parameters. It is not itself one.. When a wave "hits" an object the end of that object (in this case the end of the breaker) behaves like a point source emitter for the wave.  

So you end up with a circluar wave patteren emitting from that point.. The wavefront (the line at which the wave is at the same height - mathematically it's known as phase) is composed of a very big amount of points (line == infinite points joined together) and the wave propagates (moves) from each of those as a circle (the height, again)  and when the wave is a simple line, the sum of all propagations will result on a line at the same phase but when you encounter an obstacle, the propagation changes by this principle called the Huygens Principle. And hence what you see.. You have to consider the wave front as an infinite line of points emitting in all directions (Huygens principle). So if you cut the wave front on one extreme (for example the left end, like in the image), that "end" will be a point emitting in all directions. The waves emitted from this point interfere with the point to its right and makes the wavefront, but to its left there are no more points and it looks like point source.

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huygens–Fresnel\_principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huygens–Fresnel_principle). Diffraction always happens (if the incoming wave is sufficiently coherent), if a feature is very large compared to the wavelength its diffractive effect is just negligible.. To have diffraction you don't necesserily need a slit, it can even just be a edge like in this case. Did you use a collimated emitter to achieve this? Sounds really cool.. This is in Persian Gulf, so you are basically swimming in oil. . Somehow I don't think designers were taking wave diffraction into account when making these designs..  Can you elaborate more? Those are designed to break the vortices at the wing tip. What is the wave in that case? . A wave breaker is like a stretch of rocks that is placed in the sea (or even a lake like Lake Michigan) in order to to break the waves that are coming toward the dock or a port. It basically absorbs/reflects the waves so that the boats don't fluctuate due to the waves. Pretty much all ports andoading docks have them. . prevents erosion and damage to docked boats from large waves. also lets you create calmer swimming areas. Google maps. Abumoosa Island. . It's not about making a pattern. the waves difract at the tip of the breaker and make that concentric wave form.. Abumoosa Island, Persian Gulf Iran. Don't know if you can get there or not. . PERFECT WAVE DIFFRACTION AT THE TIP OF THE WAVE BREAKER. So you'll be joining Star Fleet, then?. Hey, congrats! As someone who barely got through QM 1&2, I know that that is no small accomplishment. Good luck on the rest of the class(es)! . Good job man!. Double slit experiment. When you have two openings the diffracted waves interfere with each other and create a distinctive pattern of places where the waves combine to grow bigger or cancel out to grow smaller. 

The double slit experiment is a classic demonstration in quantum physics. Light behaves the smae way as the ocean waves. If you shine a light where all of the waves are in sync  (like a laser) on two narrow slits you'll see the same pattern but with light and dark areas instead of bigger and smaller ocean waves. 

The problem is that you can use a type of camera sensor that is sensitive enough to detect individual photons (light particles) to measure the light and dark spots. It turns out that even if you only send one photon through at a time it will still interfere with itself, so if you send a bunch through one by one you'll still end up with a double slit pattern! So light isn't made of particles or waves, it's both, depending on how you look at it. And it turns out that basically all particles behave the same way to varying degrees. 

The disagreement refererred to is the many worlds vs "Schrodinger's cat" interpretations of quantum mechanics. Particles like electrons can be though of as having a small, but nonzero probability of being anywhere with peaks in the "waveform" at the most likely locations. So if you go looking for the electron at one of these peaks, you collapse the waveform and determine its actual location. But before then it can do things like interfere with itself and other electrons, cross through walls, and other weird stuff. 

The Schrodinger's cat thought experiment uses a similar probabilistic  process (radioactive decay) to illustrate how weird it is that observing something causes it to "choose" one of several possible outcomes by tying the atomic-scale random process to a human (or cat) scale object. Some physicists object to this interpretation, and instead say that *all* of the possible outcomes exist as parallel universes, and by observing you're only discovering which possible universe you're in. Obviously this is hard to test so there's no final answer.. surfers are electrons and fish... neutrinos?. Dude, he said explain like I am 5. I understood what you said, but you think a 5 year old knows what a point soucd emitter is?. he said "like I am five". [deleted]. **Huygens–Fresnel principle**

The Huygens–Fresnel principle (named after Dutch physicist Christiaan Huygens and French physicist Augustin-Jean Fresnel) is a method of analysis applied to problems of wave propagation both in the far-field limit and in near-field diffraction. It states that every point on a wavefront is itself the source of spherical wavelets.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. [deleted]. This thought process is what led to the deBroglie wavelength for all particles. Interesting stuff. . > collimated emitter

i'd say my yagi antenna was a reasonable approximation yes
. Well no waves. Just how the vortex curls around the wing like that. The winglet makes the vortex smaller reducing drag. . Thanks. Amazing quality coming from google maps.. AH YES, IF IT ON CAPS I UNDERSTAND IT. No that comes after tensor calc and GR.  Gotta field equations yo. . Many thanks! Do you mind if I ask what you are doing since you passed QM?. Thanks!. [removed]. Thank you for the explanation!. any good  book were we can read about this ? . It's okay, I'm actually seven. I understood this. . A wave moves like a ripple in water.  It sends out circles that increase in size as they travel.  A man named Huygen discovered that each point on a circle is actually a source for a new ripple (aka wave).  The wavefront is an imaginary line that’s flat against any point.  That point creates its own new wavefront as it moves.  When a barrier or slit is encountered, the point of the wave that hits the barrier will create its new wavefront.  This new wavefront creates a perfect semicircular ripple.  The reason ripples don’t normally create their own circles around each wavefront is because they effectively cancel out in every direction besides outward.  With an obstacle, these circumstances can be manipulated.  . Good bot. Yes, indeed. With Fourier transforms you can deconstruct the wave front in an infinite set of points emitting at all frequencies. Fourier transforms here and Huygens principle are actually referring to the same thing.

The Huygens principle (\~1600) is the effect Huygens observed and Fourier transforms (\~1800) is the mathematical counterpart that allows to decompose a signal into an infinite sum of harmonic functions.. Seems like it. So you just aimed it at the mountain peak?. Maybe you should specify what you don't get or formulate a full sentence as question and somebody might be able to explain *what* you don't get. It's been so long for me that I can't remember much other than chasing the skirts through the cafeteria.. Well, I got my BS in Physics December 2016, and now I am about halfway though my Masters. Just about to take Graduate QM in the fall. . [deleted]. Not sure how in depth you want to go but there is a good book that goes over the basics of this in easily digestible terms: How to Teach Quantum Physics to your Dog by Chad Orzel.. [deleted]. yes and the guy on the other side did the same. we were pretty confident it was not from tropospheric ducting or some other refractive event. it is repeatable regardless of conditions, but there is enhancement when refraction/reflection happens.. Oh I’m sorry I thought context clues was something people over the age of 10 were aware of.
But it’s alright I looked up”wave diffraction” on google where I don’t get sass for trying to learn :). Where do you study if I might ask. I just got into the second year of bachelor physics and astronomy at the university of Amsterdam . [deleted]. Obviously.

An advanced joke would have had the interference pattern occur before the double slits.. If you're interested and know some math, then check out this Wikipedia article.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirchhoff%27s_diffraction_formula

Turns out that if you make many simplifying assumptions (such as the screen being very far etc.) that the diffraction pattern at the screen actually is exactly the Fourier transform of the aperture.. Ah, interesting. So what sort of weather conditions seemed to provide refraction?. Oh, ha, very far from that. I am at the University of Texas at Dallas. Congrats!. [deleted]. tropo ducting / temperature inversions

http://www.dxinfocentre.com/tropo.html
. Thanks for the gold dude. Peter Higgs, physicist behind the Higgs Boson, has passed away on Monday 8th, 2024. nan. May his unbounded wavefunction approach infinity.. I remember he said that he might not have been able to be a successful academic had he been working under the more recent conditions of "publish or perish." He didn't publish that many papers. But the work he did do was obviously of high quality and impact.  
  
Ahhh... [**Here we go**:](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2013/dec/06/peter-higgs-interview-underlying-incompetence)

> He says he struggled to keep up with developments in particle theory, published so few papers that he became an "embarrassment" to his department, and would never get a job in academia now. Then again, in today's hectic academic world he thinks he would never have had enough the time or space to formulate his groundbreaking theory.. It's good that he at least got to see the LHC fulfill its nominal main purpose, discovering the Higgs. Though perhaps the particle physics community would have preferred if something unexpected beyond the Standard Model took its place.... His legacy boson forever. Imagine having an entire fundamental field named after you. 

"Oh, you had a state named after you? How cute. The thing that's named after me exists everywhere and for all eternity. But that's nice for you." 

Rest in peace.. RIP good sir. Thanks for furthering the advancement of human knowledge.. Experts undecided if they will hold mass. May take decades of research.

(Hope that didn't offend. Always a believer in levity while mourning.). Rest in Peace.. Rest in peace thank you for your contributions. It's a real shame to lose him. His work and theories is what's led to me being able to do my PhD research.. Rest in Peace. At least his contributions to the Standard Model will not be forgotten for centuries.. The "discovery" of Higgs boson is not a true discovery, in that it is a relativistic extension of  goldstone mode gapping. Even Higgs said so in his seminal paper: "This phenomenon is just the relativistic analog of the plasmon phenomenon to which Anderson has drawn attention: that the scalar zero-mass excitations of a superconducting neutral Fermi gas become longitudinal plasmon modes of finite mass when the gas is charged."

Remarkably, even though the solid state equivalent of the Higgs mode, the superconducting gap amplitude mode, was discovered first before the Higgs boson, it has now since been called the Higgs mode to raise more attention.

This post is not to diminish Higgs' work, but to bring to attention the prior works in condensed matter physics that set the stage and mathematical formulations for the discussion of the Higgs boson.. Monday the 8th of month  in the year 2024. [deleted]. Rest in peace.. > physicist behind the Higgs Boson

That guy's really bad at hide and seek.. Oh, no!. A legacy of the modern day.. Rip 🙏. RIP, his name is affixed to a fundamental aspect of the Standard Model, that is quite a legacy to leave. Happy he lived to see his work in 1964 experimentally confirmed.. Damn, RIP. What a true legend.. RIP Legend. Twista must be devastated. RIP. ahh monday... my least favorite month. Particularly bad news. RIP Boson. “Its very nice to be right sometimes”

Baller. I was walking [here](https://maps.app.goo.gl/6LeoHBWFisUE2t9M9?g_st=ic) eating sour Skittles when I read that they finally detected the Higgs-boson. Idk why I remember this, I don’t even understand pyhics, but shomehow I remember. May he rest in peace.. Leonard, donde está el boson de Higgs?. Rest in Peace. Always a legend.. Rest in particles, pete. This feels like the end of an era, RIP..  I’m glad he lived long enough to see how prediction verified. 

Einstein saw a lot of his GR predictions but he never got to see the gravitational waves.. Noooooooooooooooooooooo! :(

may we all remove our sombrero potential hats in a moment of silence for him.. RIP Boson. Will he be buried wearing a Mexican hat?. His mass is no longer mediated by the Higgs Boson. good. Monday 8th, 2024 is a weird way to write a date. RIP though, man lived an accomplished life that deserves to be celebrated. what month is monday?. To matter or not to matter. That is the question.. A Monday 8th all shall remember.. “If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants”

RIP Peter Higgs. Monday is not a month.. Was he born on the day of a past Great American Eclipse?. What month is Monday.. tan q for this.. At least he will never “spin in his grave”. He dies anew on every monday the 8th. He’s absolutely correct.  Something is wrong with academia today.. Fun reminder that a larger and more powerful version of the LHC was partially built then abandoned in Texas during the mid-90s, because the scientists, engineers, and politicians all devolved into squabbling and pointing fingers at each other.

The unfinished particle collider could've found a lot more than the LHC, and a lot earlier too (though the LHC isn't done yet by far). Just heard the news. I ought to change my user name.. eh. He is the only one, too. All other fundamental particles/fields have descriptive names or just letters.. He is one of the only physicists I know of whose name is used as a verb.  That is a rare honor!

I can only think of one other example in common usage (Bosonize).. The only state named after someone I can think of is Louisiana

Edit: well, ill be damned. Not to worry, they will hold mass — you just need to cool them down and mix them all together in a special way, first!  ;). Why feel shame, though? Death is a natural occurrence, and everyone will experience it. Moreover, it's not a loss if there was no gain in the first place. Life happens, and you simply move through it. Congratulations on your PhD. Good luck!. Won’t be forgotten as long as humans walk the earth.. And to add to this, what Higgs, but also Brout and Englert are actually known for is the mechanism in which the Higgs field gives mass to the vector field of a gauge symmetry, i.e. give mass to the vector of interactions, or said in another different way, dynamically reduce the range of an interaction.

This is known as the Brout-Englert-Higgs mechanism, and that is the reason of Englert and Higgs Nobel prize.

The boson was known before from Goldstone, but the remarkable insight here was the application of this into the construction of a working electroweak model, that crucially needed massive vector fields, which is achieved dynamically with the spontaneous symmetry breaking via Brout-Englert-Higgs mechanism.

Edit : also, the actual massive Higgs boson that we measure in the LHC, is the only non-goldstone mode out of the four modes of the Higgs field.. Yeah. This. I was about to say exactly this.

/s. I’m sure I will think about this all night instead of sleep. Sorry, what is this supposed to mean?. same day that the LHC came back on after a stint of planned maintenance.  

Coincidence?   

(hint: yes.). Lmao. I had a schoolmate who would write dates like OP. It was infuriating.. Who's going to cosine his death certificate?. Just in 2024 tho.. Are you going to publish a paper on that? Otherwise you just wasted a lot of precious time typing that comment.. Eh. Yes, there are things wrong with academia today. And I cannot speak to other fields of science.

But in particle theory, I see no reason why someone should continue to get paid to research if they haven't completed any research in many years. There are definitely a number of senior people sitting in good jobs who did good work years ago and have literally done zero science in years. Meanwhile any number of innovative and hard working younger people don't get jobs.

As for having time/space for his model, I don't know what his workflow was, but he certainly did not develop it by himself (he didn't know his method of spontaneous symmetry breaking would be expected to automatically come with a physical state until a semi-anonymous referee told him) and others were very close to figuring it out at the same time.. Not enough resources/money for physics & physicists, or science in general.  Physics just isn't profitable enough in the short run make-money today economy we live in.

My most beloved prof couldn't get grants for the research he was doing while I was in undergrad so it just died.  On the other hand, I did a quick Google search and he published within the past few years, so it's good to know he's still active... just nothing on the topic he wanted to work on.. Funding agencies have taken control of academics, that's what happened. They decide what field deserves funds and how many papers are enough publications.. I see Sabine Hofstedder talk about this a lot, her video was then posted one of physics subs and people were shitting on her calling her ignorant for espousing these ideas

Edit: her actual name is Sabine Hossenfelder. Sabine Hossenfelder just put out a youtube video saying exactly that.  Mainly that it is mostly BS, and it killed her dream.. Source? Can you back up that claim? I need hard data. Can you send me the study?. Worth pointing out though that as far as I'm aware the design for the SSC wouldn't have had such a high luminosity?. It was theorised to be going to have found a lot more, but then the LHC under-delivered. Not building the SSC may have been retrospectively a wise move.. For anyone who hasn't heard of the very Americanly named Superconducting Supercolider, here's the best video on the matter:

https://youtu.be/3xSUwgg1L4g. To be fair, it had already completed its budget, blown its timeline, and they had like 1/4 of the tunnel dug.  It was clearly going to cost 10x what was originally funded for it.  The issue is that being a good project manager and being a good physicist are not the same thing.  Now DOE projects are done a bit differently, and at least on the particle/nuclear side I don't think this would happen again.. Wrong moment. And then there's Fermi and Bose who also got it pretty good in my opinion. Majorana fermion. Sam Ting named the  J/psi the J Meson because J looks like his last name in Chinese. So it is named after him in a way.. I'm not even American, and Washington comes to mind.. bose-einstein…. Delaware, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Washington, Maryland (maybe others?). Georgia, Maryland, North & South Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Virginia directly, Delaware and West Virginia indirectly, and possibly Hawaii are also all named after people. (West) Virginia (Queen Elizabeth I, the virgin queen)

Washington

The Carolinas (Charles I)

Georgia (George II)

Pennsylvania (William Penn)

Delaware (Thomas West, Baron De La Warr)

Maryland (Henrietta Maria, wife of Charles I)

New York also technically is named after James, the Duke of York, brother of Charles II, though I guess that is still from the original place York.. There are eleven US states named after people:

Delaware (Thomas West, Baron De La Warr)

Georgia (King George II of Great Britain) 

Louisiana (King Louis XIV of France)

Maryland (Queen Henrietta Maria, wife of King Charles I of England) 

New York (James, Duke of York; later King James II of England)

North and South Carolina (named for King Charles I of England)

Pennsylvania (Admiral Sir William Penn)

Virginia and West Virginia (Queen Elizabeth I of England; famously the “Virgin Queen”)

Washington (George Washington). How dare you besmirch Gus Minnesota. Billy Bob Arkansas would beg to differ. Its still sad though. Higgs was also the only one to make the trivial point that the scalar field would mean the existence of a massive scalar boson, which is why it carries his name.. The mass generation mechanism was also done previously by the aforementioned work by Anderson that Higgs cited. However it is completely ignored by the community because Anderson's model was non-relativistic and therefore "doesn't count", even though Lorentz symmetry has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the mechanism. Anderson's paper itself also characterizes itself as merely working out in more detail a previous proposal by Schwinger.. First beams were [8th March](https://home.cern/news/news/accelerators/accelerator-report-beams-are-circulating-lhc), first collisions for physics were [5th April](https://home.cern/news/news/accelerators/large-hadron-collider-reaches-its-first-stable-beams-2024).. I guess sum one.. [deleted]. Funny thing is other people already have. It's silly if you look at how many crap papers, some on the verge of fiction, are out there. A paper honestly doesn't mean much anymore in reality.. are you unaware of the new journals, many with decent info, many making front page of reddit (ie. accepted as credible), that exist solely due to china's neccesity for applicants to certain programs or jobs or schools to have as many publications and citations as possible? The fact that independent research is impossible for most, which is responsible for some of physics largest issues today due to the inability to do better, yet another inability to be completed with observational evidence. By that I mean independent research is the foundation of our best frameworks, as the engineering problems needed to complete them or debunk them have outlived the authors. They get caught eventually, but it doesn't stop stupid and sometimes plain wrong shit from getting published. Just need to pay and you get "peer review".

I think there's some issues. Even if your idea leads to something noteworthy, due to structure of the school and it's subscription, you end up receiving partial credit 😂.

Oh on the flip side those journals also have papers like "photonically projected atoms and my Paradigm Shift in the standard model" with no math, no data, and peer review that is only available upon request. Usually that's OK. But I that case you need years of peer review to even be considered as a sane person not propogating schizophrenic nonsense.. This is correct.  Higgs is the best example of right place right time who got exceedingly lucky; he clearly "understood nothing" (a direct quote from a dinner with several senior particle theorists).

Politzer is another excellent example of a Nobel winner who should _not_ be in a job for not having done _anything_ in decades.  On the plus side, Politzer clearly understood _some_ things.. Well, I do think there is some hope in that regard.  I attended a lecture with Hitoshi Murayama who chairs P5 which is an important authority in what gets funded.  Funding opportunities are increasing, though yes many things cannot be funded.


Still, at the end of the day Congress has the final say on most projects so if the public is uninterested it’s our job to make them more interested.  I’m still amazed at some of the projects that are in progress and future projects that do have confirmed funding, like LBNF, DUNE, ASTAE, LHC improvements, and so much more. you got her name totally wrong. Yeah I saw there’s some people who feel very strongly that way.  If people respectfully disagree then I have no issue with that, all I can say is I agree with her on that issue.. Sabine says some okay things about the status of research in high energy physics today. She also has some okay videos on basic pedagogy (although there are many others that are more complete and more clear).

The problem is that mixed in with those are lots of videos pushing a very particular narrative that is in stark contrast with the rest of the field and is wholly unsupported. It says that there are specific problems in HEP (some of which aren't problems at all and others are problems, but not for the reasons she's pushing) and that she has solutions to all of them ... if you buy her book. It feels very disingenuous and it feels like rage-baiting/fear-mongering/etc.. She recently posted a video on how the current state of academia killed her dream. Literally the first thing I thought of when reading Higgs' remarks.. It would have had about a tenth of the current LHC even if it had 3 times the beam energy. The LHC didn't under-delivered. He just ran out of things to discover in its energy range. There's a reason we're building a larger one instead of giving up.. It was a lame joke. Einstein and Dirac too.. That's a hypothetical type of particle.

Fermions and bosons are types of particles named after people.. I specified "fundamental" to exclude the J/psi.. Ah yes, named after Martha Washington aka “Lady Washington”, 1st First Lady of the United States.. Well he did say "state he can think of" so he would be technically correct. Ah yes, "Bose-Einstein Conden" State. Virginia and west Virginia, north and south Carolina. How could you forget the daughters of Generals Ouri and Issippi? Or of Colonel Orado?. > North & South Carolina

Ah, so that's where Kim and Kanye got the idea to name her North.. >New York (James, Duke of York

That is still named after a place. >[Physicist and author Frank Close and physicist-blogger Peter Woit both comment that the paper by GHK was also completed after Higgs and Brout–Englert were submitted to Physical Review Letters, and that Higgs alone had drawn attention to a predicted massive scalar boson, while all others had focused on the massive vector bosons. In this way, Higgs' contribution also provided experimentalists with a crucial "concrete target" needed to test the theory.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higgs_boson)

>[However, in Higgs' view, Brout and Englert did not explicitly mention the boson since its existence is plainly obvious in their work](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higgs_boson)


Looks like Higgs himself don't agree whit you.

And it's just one theory of why it ended up being called like that. Others are because one scientist mistakenly referenced to Higgs article as the first one theorising the particle and not the one from Englert and Brout, or another because a scientist simply used "Higgs" as an abbreviation for all the names, which then popularised the use of only Higgs for the name, etc.

In the end it's probably a mix of all these theories.. How sin ful. You mean Robert Brout right ?. I don't want to bash Higgs. He wrote a few good papers on a hot topic and got a mostly complete paper sort of first on the topic. But that should support you for the next ~2-4 years. That is plenty of time to do something interesting, or even something basic. But he did no research and stayed employed for decades. While other people who had done and would have been able to continue to do more research than him in the future went unemployed. All so U Edinburgh could claim him if/when he won a Nobel prize.

Meanwhile, other Nobel laureates like Art McDonald have been pushing another state-of-the-art experiment even after getting his prize and going emeritus. He also stays up to date on both the field he got a prize in (solar neutrinos) and his main focus now (neutrinoless double beta decay).. P5 is about prioritization, not about funding levels. They are given several plausible funding levels and are told, "if the funding is okay, bad, or terrible, what should we prioritize." Congress and the private sector set the funding levels.. It’s a tough name to remember lol. I’ve watched maybe 5-7 videos of hers and never heard her promote a book tbh. Yup, that’s the video I was referring to. The "larger one" is simply silly.  It would cost an incredibly amount (and so far all the cost estimates seem to be vastly lowballing it) and essentially require the entire HEP community to be part of it in order to have any chance of succeeding.  Given that there is no verified theory that indicates real discovery potential, I simply don't see this happening.. Yes but things were theorised to exist in its energy range. And they weren't there. Pushing upwards eventually hoping to hit the things you're expecting to see is a risky strategy.. Its a physics sub were you expecting bill burr?. Don’t ~~forget~~ exclude Pauli. If a particle can be uniquely defined then it is not a type of particle.. It's well known that Higgs didn't suggest the existence of the particle for the field named after him in the original version of his manuscript; rather it was the referee at PRL, famously known to be Nambu, who suggested the existence of the particle.. Agreed that the truth is some non-trivial admixture of these theories.

I'd also add that the job of constructing  a concrete target for experimentalists was really started by Ellis, Gaillard and Nanopoulos in 1976 (and continues to this day).. Well he did say *trivial* point.. At least it got a reaction.. We can wave this one off, i think. This 100%.  It's infuriating for dead weight to take up space in departments that could go to others.  Good on McDonald, Ting, Wilzcek, etc. who have kept up doing great science and not resting on their laurels.. If you look at his official biography (https://www.ph.ed.ac.uk/higgs/peter-higgs), he published 1 (one) peer-reviewed non-conference research paper between 1966 and 1996, the year when he retired. It is not that he kept being a lecturer, which can happen if you do not meet certain criteria for advancing in academia. No, he was promoted all the way up to the Personal Chair, given tons of awards, fellowships, all on the basis of three seminal papers in 1960s. I've seen some people compare his career to that of Ken Wilson, but Wilson at least dedicated him self to teaching and promoting science in schools. Not sure what Higgs did for 30 years on a very comfortable salary. It is highly unlikely that this kind of career can be repeated today.. TBH, this is a fault of our employment system. Nobody should need to work to live. Our society has full capability to provide everyone housing, food, healthcare, etc, at no cost at point of use. But we dont because capitalism.

Everyone could do all the science they want without worrying about paying for their human rights.. Of course, Congress has the final say on every penny that gets spent on science.  But they don’t really know how much funding is needed for which project which is where DoE and NSF comes in.  And they don’t know either which is where P5 comes in.  P5 straight up rejects most projects and Congress votes on the rest, basically to my understanding.  So Dr. Murayama has recommended 35 million per year to ASTAE and 20 million per year to instrumentation research and development as 2 of many examples.  And yeah Congress could tell them to F off, but from the charts over the past 10 years he’s shown, they basically have gotten consistently the same budgets they’ve asked for, slightly lower than inflation, and that’s persisted across Obama, Trump, and Biden administrations.  That said, I am not an expert so you can tell me if your understanding is different. I never get this argument. It's not the scientists' nor the collider's fault that we haven't seen any signs of new physics. Things work exactly the way nature intended, not the way theorists want it to work.. We don’t know whether something from theory is or isn’t correct unless we test it. It’s not risky to keep testing things. It’s part of the scientific process. 

The universe is under no obligation to be easily understood by us. We have ideas and test those ideas, and they’re either right or they’re wrong. Either way, we learn something.. That's true but those specific predictions were not consensual. The will to keep exploring higher energies is broader than specific predictions, it's driven by the need to better understand high energy physics.. Ruling things out is just as valuable as ruling them in.. Knowledge of nonexistence of things is still knowledge. Yeah I was expecting too much from this sub, the OP couldn't even add "april" in the title only Monday 8th 2024. I wouldn't, in principle, exclude Pauli.. What?

Electrons are fermions, neutrinos are fermions, ... - which makes fermions a type of particle, but not a specific particle.

Majorana fermions are fermions that are their own antiparticles. There could be multiple different majorana fermions, or one, or none, we don't know. But it's a type of particle, not a specific particle.. I've heard this too. Do you have a source?. But his work matters a lot and definitely holds weight. This for sure. Idk why people are down voting the only sensible response to this situation. The need to spend most of your life worrying about paying for food/shelter/medical care is possibly the biggest drain on science (and art!) to ever exist. The structural violence of capitalism is far more effective at suppressing science than the direct violence of the Inquisition ever was.. I’m sorry but how exactly can we provide everything to everyone for free? Who is giving them to you? Who is making them? How are they making them if not for a workforce? This is absolute fantasy land, cannot believe it’s on the physics subreddit.. Sure, but resources are finite.  So  when theorists slowly increase the knobs on something like SUSY to claim we'll see something just over the next energy or luminosity horizon, they lose credibility.  Why should the world spend this much money, time and people and potentially just see that it is the SM all the way down when there is a lot of other things that can be funded.. spin 2 massless bosons are indistinguishable from gravitons so all spin 2 massless bosons are gravitons, at least as far as we currently understand. So far spin 1/2 fermions that are their own antiparticles are distinguishable to the best of our understanding, so they are unique particles and not a class of particles.. I haven't tried to find a published source before.  A brief Google search yielded https://atlas.cern/updates/blog/what-should-we-know-about-higgs-particle for Nambu as the referee, although nothing about Nambu suggesting the existence of the particle.  (I was surprised even naming Nambu as referee has a reputable source, as refereeing is supposed to be anonymous.)  For rather obvious reasons I'll hold off on naming the very, very well known people who were around and know the history who have told me the above in private.. I guess he is an expert in his field. Lol wat. 

Every day people have the opportunity to get into nowadays, wasn’t like that back then. And you think people didn’t have to work for those things in the past? My brother/sister in Christ I promise you any single one of them would come to our era to work instead of theirs. Your last sentence is insane.. >How are they making them if not for a workforce?

Ah, the wrongthink of "people are lazy and won't work." People will contribute to society regardless of incentive, because that's how our brains are evolutionarily programmed. We were doing it for hundreds of thousands of years before money became a thing.. The fact that it's very expensive to build and maintain a whole new collider like the FCC is a totally separate argument. I don't disagree, it'll be expensive and most likely goes over budget like every other megaproject. However, the physics motivation is still very much sound and valid: if we make the widely accepted assumption that the standard model is incomplete, we need to find experimental evidence to verify this claim. Since we haven't found any, we either need more precise measurement (with the upcoming HL-LHC or the planned FCC-ee) and/or to explore higher energy scales (with the planned FCC-hh). The scale of these projects is simply an indication that all low-hanging objectives in HEP have been achieved.  
People opposing new colliders often like to bring up SUSY because its minimal version has failed, but this logic is flawed for the reasons I already explained. To address the issue that there are many models to choose from, people have come up with approaches like effective field theory (EFT), which unifies the testing of new models. The basic idea behind EFT is that there are finite number of parameters called Wilson coefficients that new physics can possibly induce, provided that the energy scale of new physics is much higher than currently probed at the LHC (but not too high or else we wouldn't be able to perceive deviations from the standard model due to statistical fluctuations). If the energy scale of new physics happens to be much lower, to the point that it's currently reachable, then it would manifest as new resonance(s), which we can detect with generic bump hunts. The only downside of these "shotgun" methods is that they are not as sensitive to new signal as analyses that specifically look for the signal, which can be a problem if the signal is very faint.  
The bottom line is that there is no reason to bring up SUSY when trying to argue against new colliders, because it's simply not as relevant in HEP as people make it out to be.. > spin 2 **massless** bosons are indistinguishable from gravitons

There can be additional massive gravitons. Is there something that guarantees all Majorana fermions have to be identical?. There is no uncertainty principal about this. People *had* to work in the past to survive. We *don't* have to work (that much) today - but we are forced to by the systemic (and sometimes direct) violence of capitalism and the state.

Even among the people who can get into science today they are mostly shunted into scientific lines of inquiry that are useful for capital, or just directed completely away from science into engineering. The staggering number of people wasting away in sweat shops, cocoa fields, prisons etc, is truly heartbreaking. None of those things are necessary - they exist to further and maintain capitalism. The opportunity cost to science (and all worthwhile human endeavors) is unimaginable. The Inquisition couldn't begin to match the scale of that kind of repression.. Im not claiming people are lazy. I’m claiming that you can’t make nothing out of nowhere. If you think the invention of currency fundamentally changed the way humans interact in society, then I don’t know what to tell you. Money just made it easier for transactions to happen. The concept of value has always been a thing. 

I agree people would contribute to society, but I do not agree at all that it would be sustainable.

I would love to hear how you think this fantastical society would allocate the jobs that no one wants to do.. As an experimental physicist, I simply have to disagree that the cost of an experiment is not relevant to the discussion of what an experiment can do.  If we want to maximize what we can learn about the universe, we have to consider what is possible now based on potential discovery.  On a smaller scale, if I order a $100k oscilloscope for my lab when a $2k scope would do for my project and thus I can not order the SiPMs or prototype my readout electronics, that's a failure.  So as a community, if we decide to devote all of our resources to a project which has a discovery potential that amounts to "Well, we always saw neat things at higher energies before", instead of something based on verified theories, at the expense of all the other things we could be doing, that is also a failure.

Yes, there are more models than SUSY.  There is no model that can predict everything the SM does, makes a reasonable prediction that is validated for where the SM fails, that indicates new physics in the energy range of the FCC.  I do understand that theorists like to play games with the EFT and emphasize those solutions that are just beyond reach due to job security, but that is not the way to do science.  Bump hunting is the physicist equivalent of lawyers chasing ambulances, and certainly not something to base a program on.. Is there something that guarantees Higgs boson (or massive scalar bosons) to be identical?. >the jobs that no one wants to do.

Citation needed. You're making several claims and assumptions that are outright wrong:

1. HEP experiments consume all of our (intellectual and financial) resources without producing any results -> they won't and even if we don't find anything new with the FCC, it'd still be scientifically significant, albeit disappointing;
2. there are no models that match with the SM expectation in low-energy regime but deviate in high-energy regime -> that's the whole point of EFT! And if such deviations are found, it'll come down to just identifying the corresponding UV-completing theories, which helps us to narrow down the list of models for dedicated searches;
3. EFT is cooked up by theorists for job security reasons & bump hunts are ... unethical? -> I don't even know why I'm wasting my time replying to this incoherent nonsense because you've clearly made up your mind without understanding the nuances. It's like arguing with Sabine Hossenfelder who has taken her mission to demonize and vilify HEP researchers because she lost her funding to them.

So far I haven't heard any scientifically sound alternatives to FCC beyond "something based on verified theories", whatever that means. (edit: a typo). The Higgs boson is the Higgs boson, so it's true by definition. There are models that have multiple Higgs-like particles.. If you need a citation for the idea that there are jobs that people would not like to do, and that is the only response you have to my entire comment, then you’re just wasting time. 

Bye. Physicist Stephen Hawking dies aged 76. nan. This one hits especially hard. One of the most iconic physicists in the history of mankind.. Damn. His mind was absolutely invaluable. This is a shame.. "I’m not afraid of death, but I’m in no hurry to die. I have so much I want to do first."

* Stephen Hawking

. I remember picking up "A Brief History of Time" my sophomore year in high school.  Before then I was sort of interested in science, but that book was so approachable, without being dumbed down, and utterly fixated me on physics. It is THE reason I pursued physics at university.

Rest in Peace Professor Hawking, you inspired a generation and beyond.. [deleted]. Albert Einstein born March 14  
Stephen Hawking died March 14. Stephen will have left us with some of the innovative and ground breaking thinking about the nature of existence. He will also serve as an incredible story of how to go on living an incredible life despite a debilitating disease. What a legend.  Cheers to Stephen and long live science. . Assuming he wrote something ahead of time, he’s uniquely positioned to speak at his own funeral.. :(. [deleted]. Safe trip to the cosmos, RIP Stephen hawking and give Bowie our regards. My current supervisor was one of his PhD students, so I felt like a grand-graduate student of his. Very sad to hear. What an incredible physicist who accomplished so much given his circumstances. His contributions to physics will ensure his memory and inspiration continue to live on.. According to therapeutic data on ALS, Hawking should have died of the disease when he was around 27 at the latest. Apparently there is [only one other person](http://www.medicaldaily.com/stephen-hawking-oldest-als-survivor-physicist-has-defied-odds-407864) who has survived that long with the disease.

You can't help but wonder if his singular endurance with the condition may not have the same underlying cause as his brilliance. For a 76 year-old, he lived an incredibly full life. He will be remembered and celebrated, which is more than many can hope for, and he stands as a beacon of hope for disabled people everywhere.

Good night, sweet prince.. "My goal is simple. It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all." -Stephen Hawking

RIP Dr Hawking, know that, though you cannot be replaced, others will carry on towards yours, and all of science's, goal. Not only was he the one that prompt me to study physics at the tender age of 10, but I also had the rare opportunity and pleasure to meet him. 

He had a tour around our lab and brought smiles on everyone's face.

I'm just happy that we get to have him for so long, and happy to be in the same universe as him. 

So long, Stephen. We're all star stuff. . He was broken but now he'll fly amongst the stars. As a mod, I think it's important to try not to silence anyone here because this is an inherently emotional topic, but I would like to remind everyone to be thoughtful and mature in the comments.

Further reading:

* [NASA tweet](https://twitter.com/NASA/status/973787392590172160)
* [Neil deGrasse Tyson tweet](https://twitter.com/neiltyson/status/973772335537893377)
* [Hawking's AMA on /r/Science from two years ago](https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/3nyn5i/science_ama_series_stephen_hawking_ama_answers/)

. My soul just shivered.. He was a truly rare person for being a great popularizer of physics who also did truly great physics. The singularity theorems are one of the most beautiful results in physics to me. *The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time* should be required reading for anyone with an interest in gravitational physics or cosmology.. Holy crap this is real? I can't believe it.... the genius of our time... just gone like that. The world lost a giant. . I can’t believe it. One of the most inspirational things he said was that, even though his body was trapped in a wheelchair, his mind was free to explore the universe.. I thought this was a terrible internet hoax. Really sad to hear it's true. The world just got a teeny bit less smart today.. Rest In Peace. . Super :(. [deleted]. He was one of the inspirations that got me into physics. I received his book *A Brief History of Time* as a Christmas present as a child. I was always impressed that, despite how immeasurably difficult his life was, he still decided to contribute knowledge with one clicked letter at a time.. I'm so sorry for our loss. . :(((. Don't really know what to say other than Hawking was a wonderful human being and an inspiration. He represented some of the best that humanity had to offer. He was brilliant and fortunately he lived A LOT longer than anticipated when given his diagnosis. RIP ;_; . “It is not clear that intelligence has any long-term survival value.” -Stephen Hawking. 

I know it’s in bad taste, but he also said, “Life would be tragic if it weren't funny.” RIP. I wish we could learn more from his knowledge, but I hope we see greater growth from his impact on the world. . No no no no no no nO NO NO NO NO FUCK FUCK FUCK SHIT . Good night sweet prince. I know he was in a wheelchair with that disease, but damn he looked good for 76! I always thought he was 50!. [deleted]. Honestly, I’ve never paid much attention to physics it was always way over my head, but I’ve always took time to read anything mr Hawkings wrote. He had a way of connecting me into understanding and enjoying certain theoretic explainations! Rip to this legend. Rest in Peace. :(. And to know doctors predicted his death much too prematurely. Hawking was a hero for the inquisitive, and a giant of cosmology. May his example live on in us. Yo as someone who grew up watching a lot of physics and universe videos/tv shows, this hit hard. . He made physics fascinating for everyone, whilst researching at the highest level.. I used to read Brief History of Time in my high school maths classes instead of doing the work. Hawking's message have got through somehow, in spite of my past laziness I'm now doing my PhD in particle physics. . *Sad robot noises*. oh...oh man. What a bummer. Rest in peace.. I still have the copy of A Brief History of Time and loan it out to my students all of the time. A titan of modern science. RIP. . You will be missed. Thank you for inspiring us all.. This is a very sad day, I am in disbelief and just staring at the headline :( RIP Professor Hawking, thanks for teaching us so much. We have lost a giant today. . Is this real?. Damn. You can argue all you want about who's made the most contributions to physics, but there's no doubt Stephen Hawking was a true icon.. I’m drunk but fuck 
. Damn. Wasn't expecting it so early. RIP.. What is with that tweet from Neil degrase Tyson? That dude is literally always in iamverysmart mode. . RIP. Kind of a coincidence he left us on a PI(3.14) day. Usually wake up to the news at 7am. I have never gone from being basically still asleep to fully awake so quickly.. One of the brightest minds of our time! :(. RIP ,:(. I was just started watching physics videos and how Stephen hawking was one of the greatest scientists, RIP :(. Wow... such a big loss. Rest in peace Hawking. Your humor will be missed. . Truely an inspiration to everyone.. Damn, amazing he survived so long with his illness. And still being incredibly productive for so long too.. Woooooah. Please tell me his mind was uploaded to a satellite where he will be safe forever.....

:(. 😞. :(. Rest in peace.

Truly one of the greatest of all time. ;___________;7. http://www.scholarpedia.org/article/Bekenstein-Hawking_entropy

In memory of Bekenstein and Hawking. . OMG, I love his Album, worked with Pink Floyd, his voice was great...

---

[Keep Talking && Talkin` Hawkin`](https://muxiv.com/en/playlist/365607596)

---
. I don’t think its ever bothered me when a celebrity has died, but this has truly made me sad :( . Wasn’t he on Epstein Island?. Wellllll this is awkward. This thumbnail is always bad news. 

It's a sad day for science and humanity.. Rest in peace, Mr. Hawking.. His body may be gone but his legacy will never die. R.I.P. .  Can't believe it. Literaly watched his movie with Eddie Redmayne last week. This one is hard.. :( Guess he'll just have to live on with the rest of the best, in the garden of my mind... Right in the midst of another space race. I hope he can finally rest in peace knowing we are finally headed in the right direction. . this definitely comes as a shock, i thought it was some kind of joke when i read the headline. 

I have to say, though, his life seems like a life well lived. He massively outlasted his ALS prognosis and made great contributions to humanity.. Fuck. Science besides, his witty remarks and self-deprecating sense of humour were everything.. Thank you Stephen for all you have done for science. :(. “One, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it. Three, if you are lucky enough to find love, remember it is there and don't throw it away.” ~ Stephen Hawking. Not much of a book person, but remember being so enticed in A Brief History of time I read the thing in a weekend. A smart, brilliant, inspirational man. Will be missed. . Stephen Hawking really had a great influence on my life... "The Universe in a Nutshell" was the book that inspired me to study physics in college! RIP. Damn.

RIP Stephen Hawking. Truly an inspirational physicist for our generation. . It seems fitting that this is the first celebrity death to ever make me cry.. He lived a good life. RIP. My others spring from your shoulders in the pursuit of knowledge.. "The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge." RIP.

. Lit my Einstein saint candle for the first time tonight. :(. As a true scientist, he left this world on 3.14. Godspeed sir.... Never got a chance to meet alien :(. This guy proved how valuable a good mind is.  He was able to accomplish more being bound in a wheelchair almost his entire life then most physically active people will.. Died peacefully in his home. I didnt agree with him on alot of things but im so thankful his pain has ended. Nothing can be asked more for a man but to die peacefully .   -  Stephen Hawking’s 3 favorite songs.


“[Symphony Of Psalms](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=DqWZGUO_eoc) was in fact the first piece of music Professor Hawking ever purchased. “I first became aware of classical music when I was 15,” he said. “LPs had recently appeared in Britain. I ripped out the mechanism of our old wind-up gramophone and put in a turntable and a three-valve amplifier. I made a speaker cabinet from an old book case, with a sheet of chip-board on the front. The whole system looked pretty crude, but it didn’t sound too bad. At the time LPs were very expensive so I couldn’t afford any of them on a schoolboy budget. But I bought Stravinsky’s Symphony Of Psalms because it was on sale as a 10” LP, which were being phased out. The record was rather scratched, but I fell in love with the third movement, which makes up more than half the symphony.”


[Wieniawski’s Violin Concerto No. 1](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=aNOdaBJbT8A)Professor Hawking was actually inspired to buy a collection of Wieniawski’s music after hearing his second concerto on Radio 3 in the 1990s, but prefers the first in particular for its “haunting phrase in the first movement”.


[Francis Poulenc’s Gloria](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ReqsEqKtyyA) is the final piece in Professor Hawking’s musical trilogy. Part of the work caused a “scandal” – in the French composer’s own words – when it was first performed in 1959 because of its unusual mixture of light-heartedness and spirituality. Poulenc later explained that he had been thinking of frescoes in which angels stick out their tongues and “serious Benedictines whom I saw playing soccer one day” when he wrote it.
Professor Hawking first heard the Poulenc Gloria in Aspen, Colorado, during the resort’s 1995 music festival. “You can sit in your office in the physics centre there and hear the music without ever buying a ticket,” he said. “But on this occasion I was actually in the tent to hear the Gloria. It is one of a small number of works I consider great music.”
. On Pi day.. In the middle of watching a documentary about aliens, i see this post. Please dont be real..       )
   :. He finally gets to find one of the biggest truths in the universe, I wish him the very best.. I know it was inevitable but this news was too sudden for me to hear I am really sad, I wanted to meet him. He lived a long and extraordinary life, and he'll forever live on through his legacy. Goodbye, professor. . This really hit hard for me. Hawking was one of the reasons why I got into physics. While only being an undergrad at the moment, I’ve read some of his papers and during an introductionary course for physics me and two friends got to talk to our local theoretical physicists about black holes and Hawking’s contributions really stood out.

I’ll be rewatching lectures of his today.... [A quote](https://i.imgur.com/VePy75p.jpg). Born on the day that Galileo passed away, gone on the day that Einstein was born. He didn't choose physics, physics chose him.. RIP. He was a brilliant man. . “I have lived with the prospect of an early death for the last 49 years. I’m not afraid of death, but I’m in no hurry to die. I have so much I want to do first.” RIP. This year we already lost two of the greatest minds in hep-th, Joe Polchinski and Stephen Hawking. :(. Rest in peace, he was the greatest mind of our generation, and its a huge loss to see him go. He will go on forever not just with all of the knowledge he imparted, but also In all of the unread but often owned A Brief History of Time's. He once called it the most unread, most owned book.. ;(. For all the loss we've suffered, it's probably best that he passed on. The man was suffering every minute of everyday.. He was a great man.. May the cosmos receive him as well as he received it.. Oh my god. RIP, Great Man.. My boyfriend and I were literally just talking yesterday about how his death would be an international upset when it occurs, and how he is one of the greatest minds of our time. Not 24 hours later he passes away. So sad :(. I'm a TV news producer. The science nerd in me is honored and proud to say that I was able to break this news on national TV in the US. The networks are all busy covering the special election in Pennsylvania, but I convinced my executive producer that it was worth us taking a minute out of that coverage to tell the news of Stephen Hawking's passing. It is one of the proudest minutes of television that I've ever produced. Rest in peace, professor.. Outliving all the odds and pushing the boundaries of science. RIP Dr. Hawking: our modern day Einstein . omg. first celebrity death that has actually shook me. Rest in peace.. When I was 13 I read Stephen Hawkings A Brief History of Time. That, along with Neil degrasse Tyson’s Cosmos documentary, were my early inspirations to become a physicist. I’m almost done high school and plan to major in physics. I cannot say I would want to study that field if it weren’t for him. Thank you and Rest In Peace. Oh shit. “Women. They are a complete mystery.”
-Stephen Hawking. He was one of the most loved cosmologists  of the word, we will miss him.  
R.I.P. . Death doesn't discriminate,it just takes and it takes and it takes. Thank you Dr. Hawking for playing your part in making me a physics student and for helping us understand the universe, the world lost a giant.. Sending my RIPS. Oh no :(. May he rest in peace.. Awful news to wake up to. 

Genuinely saddened by his death. What an inspirational man Stephen Hawking was. 

He gave a big middle finger to MND and accomplished more with that awful disease than I, and many others, ever will without MND trying to hold us back. 

The world has lost one of its greatest minds today. 

. Does anyone know what his last words were?. Look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see, and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious.

**Stephen Hawking**

Rest in Peace.. I just come into reddit and see this. Damn, that took me by surprise! For a moment I thought it was a prank, but damn...

No matter what you may think about him, the guy made huge contributions to physics and became an inspiration for various physicists, at least that's was my experience.. What's nice is that I'm not sad at all, and you shouldn't be either. He had an amazingly successful and inspirational life, overcoming severe disability to grapple with black holes and the big bang, doing some of the most significant work in physics of the previous century. He died peacefully in his home and now he's one with the universe again, RIP sweet prince. . 😢. He was my inspiration. . This hits really hard. I picked up 'a brief history of time' when I was like 12 and it's mainly what got me interested in physics.. P= 3.562×1032 W kg^2 /M^2. What are the odds that he dies on  pi day. Finally he gets to rest in a black hole. Once he stood upon the giants and now he himself is giant, RIP Stephen hawking. I get a sense of happiness knowing that.. he achieved so much...RIP. he will be missed. RIP!. I am heartbroken. This is the most influential physicist since Einstein. Reminds me of Sagan's death. My grandmother and one of my role models in the same year, wow. Hawking and Neil Tyson made me fall in love with astronomy and study it. Prayers for his family.. Beware the Ides of March.. Great guy with a great sense of humour.. When kids were watching Sportscenter growing up I was watching the Science Channel, thinking about time travel, black holes, and other worlds. I love that stuff, and Hawking played a huge role in that. It was cool to live the in the time period he did. RIP Hawking.. On pi day nonetheless... RIP . are they going to preserve his brain?. It is my belief that individuals of Mr. Hawking's caliber cannot experience death in the usual way. You see their struggle is so long, contributions immeasurable, invaluable. These people never die. They transcend. Crippled no more, he has transcended the human condition. . "Hello, my name is Stephen Hawking, physicist, astronomer, and something of a dreamer. Although I can not move, and I have to speak through a computer, in my mind I'm free".

From "Into the Universe with Stephen Hawking". I sent off a PhD application today. I'd like to think that's a fitting tribute.

Rest easy, professor.. robin williams. Dolores O'Riordan. and now a genius that suffered so much and lived to an amazing 76 years. i am not one to mope on celebs but these are the major ones that have hit me if ever a famous person did. it's sad.. so very sad. r.i.p.. *So* glad the movie came out before he died.

And so glad that when given "one or two" years to live at age 22 he refused to die for another 54 years. And that he used that time to propose magnificent ideas, or to knock over magnificent ideas, or to first propose and *then* knock over his own magnificent ideas... he helped give science a human face, something too few scientists do, and fewer do well.

RIP, Mr Hawking.. What was his greatest achievement in Physics?. Is anyone else in the camp believing that he *chose* to die on such an auspicious date?

I think it fits his personality and brilliance perfectly. "a brief history of time" was my first book outside of a physics class about physics. It sparked a curiosity that lead me into a scientific field. It helped my passion for a deeper understanding of the universe. And I thank him for that.  Also Dr. Hawkings sense of humor and story really are inspiring. He was a great face for science and really will be missed. . A cliche figure like Bill Nye. Journalists loved him, so he's popular with laymen.. Oh, I even couldn't make comments yesterday, just because I was really sad. I'm fan of Stephen Hawking and his theory. Thank you very much, Stephen, for your contribution in science, in my life and, I'm sure, in lives of many people. You were a really great man.. u/profanitycounter self. On Pi Day, of all things! What fitting time to go.. Well shit looks like we're not figuring out black holes any time soon. We were counting on you! :( R.I.P. in peace. [removed]. [removed]. My words mean little here, but I feel conflicted. On one hand, a great human being and physicist has died. On the other hand, his life pushed our species in the correct direction, something that seems quite rare in this day and age. One can only hope that his legacy lives far beyond his presence on Earth.

Goodbye, Professor Hawking. Thanks for helping us out.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. RIP. A healthy guy declares there is no god and suddenly got on chair what a coincidence 🙏🏽. RIP Sir.. u/profanitycounter self. Bro, I'm smashed. 💐. He lived way longer than he was told he would. I get a sense of happiness knowing that. He also achieved so much. RIP. True. I cannot foresee another mind as great as his for a while. Newton. Einstein. Hawking. We might not see someone so advanced beyond their times for hundreds of years. . Indeed. We were lucky to be the generation that got to see his eminence. I'm sure history will remember Stephen Hawking along with other people who changed the course of humanity like Newton, Einstein, Gauss, etc..  He brought up the collective intelligence of the planet. As he was more intelligent than the entire state of Alabama combined . It's such a shame so much of it was locked away from the world. Imagine what he could have done.. [deleted]. He really lived by that quote, he lived 53 years longer than the 2 he was given.. “One, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it. Three, if you are lucky enough to find love, remember it is there and don't throw it away.” ~ Stephen Hawking. I am not ready for him to go. We still need him. His great mind is too important to be gone already. . I imagine it was a sense of relief for him.  He has probably felt frustrated with ability to interact with his world vs how he wanted to.. Yeah... I had the same reaction. Stunned. I just wasn't expecting that right then... 

The world has lost a burning light.. I knew it would happen eventually, but I still wasn't ready for it to happen now, it was almost surreal at first. I had the same reaction. Gasped and just sat there for a min processing. Never realized how I viewed him as a fixture of the world in my mind. Feels weird now.. First Martin Shkreli now Stephen Hawking. 

At least we still got Elon Musk. . Pi day.... Galileo Gallilei died Jan 8

Stephen Hawking born Jan 8. [deleted]. >Stephen Hawking, born January 8th

>R. Kelly, born January 8th

Woah. Albert Einstein Died at 76

Stephen Hawking Died at 76

3/14 = Pi Day. Maybe the next insane genius is already among us, being born, learning, studying, researching. Who knows.

Hopefully humanity continues to use his work to further advance.. Coincidence? I think not.

Look into it, that's all I'm saying.. My Birthday March 14. Gallileo died January 8.
Stephen Hawking born January 8.. ***THE CYCLE IS COMPLETE***. He died 7 days after my birthday... he will forever be missed . Stephen was the reason why I first got interested in science after I was watching discovery channel and “Stephan Hawking: Grand Design” came on. I transcribed all the episodes I watched and still remember the episodes to this date. After that I was hooked and started studying physics. Even though he can’t move a muscle he leaves an impression on anyone who he interacts with because he doesn’t let anything stop him from achieving his goal in life.

R.I.P Stephen . It's still March 13th. I hope this ironic date thing with physicists keeps going.. Things tend to happen in cycles.... He died 3/13 dumb fuck. Oh wow, he probably did. I hope he did. I'm sure I'll cry like a baby too. . With his now empty wheelchair placed in front of a podium. . Anyone can record themselves for their own funeral. His recording would only be unique in that it could be the first time the words are actually said aloud.. Good lord man, people were spamming “r.i.p Stephen Hawking” in twitch and making jokes so I just assumed they were trolling, show up here and find out it’s true. What a bummer dude. Guy was an inspiration for many people. . This is probably the most appropriate response for this subreddit. =(. That about sums it up sadly.. : (. [removed]. Better yet, watch the Errol Morris documentary on Hawking, [A Brief History of Time](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GiIIx6oh0pk). . not a fan tbh. Too much focus on romance, too little focus on Hawking's incredible achievements, or physics at all.

I don't mean to be contrarian. I just don't think it's "About Hawking's life", more like "about the relationship with his first wife".

I would've liked a little less hollywood romance, a little more "hawking discovers awesome physics stuff" acted out.. [deleted]. That movie was horrible tbh.. Seams like an average romantic drama, I cant stand these. You totally are his academic grand child.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academic_genealogy
. I lost my academic grandfather last year. In some ways it does feel like losing a member of your family.. What if he had some genetic mutation that allowed him to survive that long with ALS? Wouldn't that just be a find... anyway, he was a brilliant man with a brilliant vision, and I couldn't agree more to what you said.. Fuck. *"Number 2....*

*Set her to light speed.*


*"We're going home".*



. );. A true disturbance in the force. A great mind from the realm of humanity has just been silenced. . feels like someone walking over my grave. Why is the comment I like the most buried so deep? I guess that happens when threads becomes popular.. [deleted]. Reminds me his book who was recommended here in the past on the shoulders of giants. . F. [deleted]. I am not in physics but he was integral in my decision to pursue a career in science.. 1275% error in predicting his lifespan. Just calc'd it out. Rounding up (I thought today was 3/14) . "documentary". I opened up kerble space station for the first time in a year, then I see this notification. . rest in rip. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. UH OH! Someone has been using stinky language and u/hshshdhjsjz decided to check u/DJ_MEDMA's bad word usage.

I have gone back 999 comments and reviewed their potty language usage.

|Bad Word|Quantity|
:--|:-:|
|ass|1
|bitch|4
|booty|1
|damn|34
|dick|1
|fucking|48
|fuck|36
|god damn|3
|hell|7
|knob|1
|lmao|8
|motherfucking|1
|pissed|1
|shitty|3
|shit|33
|titty|1

^(Request time: 20.4. I am a bot that performs automatic profanity reports.)^( This is profanitycounter version 3. Please consider )^([buying my creator a coffee.](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/Aidgigi))^( We also have a new )^([Discord server](https://discord.gg/7rHFBn4zmX))^(, come hang out!). [deleted]. Username checks out. 3yr. 84000 karma.
Dude this must be a horrible day for you. My condolences.. Well, given that in physics alone we’ve already had Dirac, Feynman, Schrödinger, Heisenberg, Oppenheimer, Witten, etc., it doesn’t look like there’s much cause for concern. 

Hawking was a brilliant and tremendously inspirational man, yes, but suggesting that he was in the same league as Einstein or Newton in terms of his academic contributions to physics is utterly preposterous. . He is no where near the level of those guys. He likely wasn’t even the most brilliant theoretical physicist at his university. People are confusing popularity with technical contributions. . Im sorry but what did Hawking do again ? I guess he has the Hawkin Law ... Newton, Einstein, Galileo, you cant compare them to Stephen Hawking please reconsider haha. Not only that, but just look at what he could do WITHOUT access to communicate that part.

In the books as one of the pioneers of human exploration of the universe, no doubt.. What if we just weren't ready . Did he say that? That’s kinda sad.. Fictional being the main difference. . When my brother texted me this I thought it was a meme, and then my brain sort of locked up. I just kept reading it over and over trying to make sence of it. The world without Stephen Hawking in it is just too surreal. https://i.imgur.com/VBNP9MR.jpg . LMAO don't put Shkreli in the same fucking category as Hawking (or Elon) ever.. Will Elon Musk be a huge science figure like Hawking? Somehow I doubt it. . But Martin Shkreli isn't dead (and he is young enough that he will still have plenty of time to do stuff when his prison sentence ends). only in america though, and in america he died on 3-13. Both at age 76.... Exactly 300 years apart. . Great physicists confirmed Buddha, I expect the next great one to be reincarnated today.. I'm right here. So I have no chance? Dag nab it.. 7*6=42. Dirac large numbers hypothesis confirmed.. There are many living scientists that are arguably smarter than Hawking, or at least contributed more than him in astrophysics . Birth and death on pi day: pipi= pi^(2).

They both died at 76. 7 looks like / so (pi)^(2)/6 which is the solution to the Basel problem solved by Euler *who also died at 76*.

Euler died on Sept 18, Einstein on April 18: 9/18 and 4/18 or (3^(2))/18 and (2^(2))/18... next (1^(2))/18.

And I just found out that on 1/18/1993 MLK day was first observed in all US States which I think is kind of crazy. It's not related, but none of it was.. [deleted]. RIP. Mine too, happy birthday mate.. Happy Birthday!. Time zones , cool eh?. No I can confirm it was 14th. I’m not quite sure if you are aware of something called time zones but they are this magical thing that segregates the world into zones according the time it is. So I can tell you are from America because you do your date mm/dd/yyyy because for some reason you guys are a little special because the rest of the world uses dd/mm/yyyy because it just makes sense. In England it was early in the morning making it the 14th. I hope they get someone to speak it with passion. He is free from his body now, what a perfect time to supplement that fact with a moving speech from a passionate voice he has for so long been denied.. Got chills imagining that.. I saw it in League. What a fucking awful way to find out.. I genuinely thought that Twitch chat had bamboozled me. Of all the things for it to be right about, why must it have been this??. Found out through r/Imgoingtohellforthis. How could anyone joke about this? The greatest mind of our time is gone. . I'm glad I'm not the only one that found out through twitch. Even the streamer I was watching thought it was a joke at first.. [deleted]. :-(. Both were men I really admired, this is a sad year :(. Dang. The soundtrack he did for theory of everything is one of the best albums to listen to while studying.. [removed]. Any other recommendations on video clips covering his latest theories?. > Too much focus on romance, too little focus on Hawking's incredible achievements, or physics at all.

It's based on his wife's book so this makes sense tbh. It's not about his scientific achievements. We all know his scientific achievements. It's about his personal struggles with ALS and how it affected her relationship with him.. What shows or movies that cover his latest theories that you would recommend?. Knowing you, you might tear up a bit.. At times. It's truly a great movie though. . Possibly yeah, but it's not a weepy. Just a really sweet, charming movie with beautiful performances, music and cinematography.. It's a neural disease, and he was gifted in his neural function. It doesn't strike me as impossible that one affected his ability to withstand the other.. You have high standards, but I also see what you're saying.. Not all true things need to be said all the time everywhere. He was a great physicist, let's leave it at that. You can discuss how overrated he was in a different thread six months from now.. Does our era have such a genius you think, and if so, then who?. You should go to the r/news threads where they're calling him "the greatest scientist since einstein". . I honestly don't know if he is the "genius of our time" but I do know he was an Icon. He was so much of what makes today glorious. That a man can live with ALS to his old age, that he could cultivate his skill for physics, these are things that could never be in any earlier time. He was a symbol of our ability to force the world to obey, not just because he lived but because he advocated for and developed ways to grow that ability.

I'm also not a big fan of how you responded to the downvotes.. I'm aware of *why* you're getting downvoted, but it is for the wrong reason. You're right. He wasn't *the* genius of our time. He never won the Nobel Prize in Physics, so while he is indeed a genius beyond doubt, you're right to point out that there are and have been people who were, infact, more genius than Hawking. 

But all of that beside the point, people are just mad because it sounded like a "big deal so what post" but I'm certain you didn't intend to mean that. . Think about all the math he had to do in his head because he couldn't write on paper. That's fucking smart.. I don't even care if you're right. 

when you tell everyone that they're sucking his dick, you're being a fucking arsehole. . I mean if there's any time to be polite it's now, I think leaving criticism for later is polite.. Eh, you can have a decent documentary about SETI, the probability mathematics of alien life in the universe and statistical likelihood of contact etc.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. I believe he survived so long on pure brain power. I always thought he would have been one of the first to use robotic limbs worked with the brain. . Upvote for staying true to citation. I am pretty sad right now. This is a horrible year. . [deleted]. [According to the Telegraph, it is true.](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/stephen-hawking/12088816/Professor-Stephen-Hawking-13-of-his-most-inspirational-quotes.html?frame=3544138)

I like this one:

>“Some people would claim that things like love, joy and beauty belong to a different category from science and can’t be described in scientific terms, but I think they can now be explained by the theory of evolution.”. I mean it's true for most people.. [removed]. So he wasn't a real physicist.. just one in theory. [deleted]. I don't think so. He's not going to be the public figure as we know it. No more livestreams bascially. . Is it not standard practice to use the time of death from where they died?. It's pi day everywhere, since there is no 14th month.

Source: European proudly celebrating pi day every year.. In Australia he hasn't died yet.. Yeah pretty wild. I read this fact on one of the articles I saw last night.. 4*2=8

Stephen Hawking was born on January 8th 1942. . 22/7 = Pi. Yes, but what is The Question?. Wow, you really looked into it!. What even is a sarcasm?. I’m special but yet you guys lost a war to a colony. Your whole country is retarded.. Honestly... I think this would feel disingenuous. His computer voice is so iconic now that hearing it give his final speech would be especially poignant. Ever seen The Theory Of Everything? His closing lines in that made me eyes all sad.. I found out through the Onion. . Yeah, I found out through Runescape. Feels terrible.. I thought the guy in TF2 with the name "RIP Stephen Hawking" was joking.

:(. Some people joke about things to cope, others just do it because life is too short to be uptight about something as common as death.  I saw some quality memes about it this morning.  Jojo memes to be precise, which was the weirdest part.. I mean you don’t have to always have a speech ready my guy, I’m assuming they posted that because that’s how they’re feeling, bummed the fuck out. . I didn't mean for it to be disrespectful. I saw the BBC notification and honestly just slumped my shoulders and just sighed. I'm not educated enough to understand most, if not all, that is trafficked through this sub, but I have gone through a few of his books and felt a wonder of how expansive knowledge can be in relation to how little I understand about it. Still doesn't negate that its that much of a bummer he's finally at rest. . Posted like 40 mins ago, fucking give it time. . ):. What an ignorant thing to say lol, who gives a shit what subreddit it is, it was relevant to the comment and is tragic in its own right. Holy shit! I downvoted your very first comment five days ago on the grand tour subreddit!  Now I'm running across you here of all places and you've done so much important work since then!  Never stop improving and growing as a person and I'll see you some where else in a week or so. Good luck!. Contrary to popular opinion/belief, physics and music have *a lot* to do with each other. Music works because of physics. Music expressed as physics is as beautiful as the original thing. Music practically runs in most physicists' blood. Nothing is more inseparable than music and physics—subjects *supposedly* completely unrelated to each other.

Come on, man. I expected better from trolls. I was under the impression they were intelligent. . god can you just fuck off. What a sad life you live. . I didn't mean for this to turn into a movie review thread, but that was actually one of the reasons I loved the film so much. I found it interesting and depressing seeing how ALS affected him, his wife, his family and his work. It's far from a scientific discovery movie, but it really gave character and a great backstory to someone who, to a lot of people, is just an old man in a chair. Sounds kinda funny saying backstory about someone who's real.. I think that's important as well. The personal life and history of Stephen Hawking is not very well known (afaik) and this movie helps show people that. [deleted]. I don't know. Physics has become such a complex field over the past 120 some years that very few individuals can really stand out any more. There are certainly still some very notable physicists (e.g. Susskind, Unruh, Maldacena, Thorne, etc.), but there aren't any Einsteins, Feynmans, or Diracs anymore, and it's quite possible that there never will be again due to the sheer complexity of the modern field. Mathematics has a few stars like Roger Penrose, and I'm sure other STEM disciplines have their stars, but to my knowledge we've run out of "geniuses of our times".. For math, Terry Tao. He's made big contributions to multiple branches of math, which is pretty rare, since most specialize. Was a child prodigy who fulfilled his potential. . Not to dimish anything of Hawking, he absolutely accomplished a lot but I always thought of him more as a pop-sci author then of an active researcher. He had some important research but it's in from my pov a pretty niche theoretical field. Like if someone asked me, name an accomplished researcher, Hawking would never come to mind, someone like Ed Witten would be who I think of.. Sure, tons. There are hundreds if not thousands of brilliant people in science working on amazing stuff. Look at all the technology we have now, and all the scientific advancements we have made in the past few years... It's just that the public hasn't latched on to any one of them in the same way that they did with others like Hawking and Einstein. . Dirac would like a word.. >He never won the Nobel Prize in Physics

I don't think we should ever use the Nobel Prizes in Physics as an arbiter of genius. You can't be awarded the prize until after your contribution is recognised as having made a large impact on science, and for a lot of theoretical physics, that will take decades at a minimum. A lot of people who did groundbreaking theoretical work died before the true scope of that work was realised. They're exempt from ever getting a Nobel Prize, but that doesn't mean they weren't geniuses or that their work wasn't as amazing as the stuff that did win. Einstein never got the Nobel Prize for Special/General Relativity, he got it for his work with the Photoelectric effect many years earlier. The level of technology required to "prove" relativity was too far ahead of the time, and was unprovable during his lifetime. 

I imagine something similar could happen with Hawking Radiation. We don't have the technology to really prove or disprove it, or to show its impact on physics as a whole. It's still pretty deep theory. . Isn't that what grad students are for?. [removed]. That and millions of dollars worth of medical treatment and personal assistants.. I honestly thought this as well. 

I though some neurobotic genius would come up with some machine that would let him walk around.. Just remember this quote of his: 

"Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Try to make sense of what you see and wonder about what makes the universe exist. Be curious. And however difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at. 
It matters that you don't just give up." 

This made me feel terrible as well. But I will recover and redouble my efforts into my studies, in order to keep myself on the path of learning more about the universe. I have an Organic Chemistry final on Friday. I will work as hard as I possibly can to learn. . I have given you gold, /u/iluvstephenhawking.
Look carefully at the coin.

On it is etched a Stephen Hawking casting away his chair.

Around the coin are etched the words:

"Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet.". > my own opinion is that his singularity theorems are his best work and more interesting than Hawking radiation

Could you explain why? It seems to me that understanding black hole thermodynamics is one of the most important issues being discussed in physics today. Without experimental data it's currently the most fertile ground for understanding gravity in terms of quantum mechanics. . Great quotes by him. RIP. lol what a STEMlord. Hey dude, this isn't /r/imgoingtohellforthis

Way too soon. Not cool. Guy just died, and he was a real person. Go be edgy somewhere else.. >stop downvoting me

No.. If you’re disabled by middle age, you’ll know why.. Really?. What an insult. I refer you sir, to Christopher Reeve; while not afflicted by ALS overcame great diversity through his life despite paralysis. On screen, every bit a superman, and though wheelchair bound determined to carry that spirit forward with him. Reeve was and is superman to me in every way.:

"A hero is someone who, in spite of weakness, doubt or not always knowing the answers, goes ahead and overcomes anyway."

If such a spirit and quote weren't applicable to a man who was originally given two years to live...I don't know who is.. Really? I'm pretty sure having a sense of humor about a personal condition means you laugh at *jokes* about that condition, not whatever the hell that was. And in case you didn't know, jokes involve being clever. 

Pathetic, dude. . I can appreciate that joke. Shkreli grew up poor, ended up rich, ripping off medically ill for profit.

He's also in prison. 

Elon will never hit that "milestone" and Hawking didn't.. Time is relative, is it not?. Only as standard as it is to make date based jokes on the day in question according to local custom. According to local custom of where Hawking died, it was not pie day.. [deleted]. 31st april?. Illuminati: Don't move a muscle.. ah, an engineer I see. you disgust me.. Not exactly ... which country do you think I’m from?. True, Some epic speeches are going to come anyway from this from his many friends, I wonder if any speeches were discussed/prepared before hand. 

tis a sad day.. [removed]. :’(. It’s a 5 day old obvious troll compensating for personal failures. 🤷‍♂️. Stephen Hawking was a real person, and he was also a hero to a lot of people, for a lot of reasons, only one of which was that he was a truly great physicist.

This reddit thread is a place where a lot of people are sharing reflections on his life and mourning a public figure who was important to their own lives. It's the wrong place for what you're doing.

If you need data on this, check out the upvote/downvote ratio on your post. That's not a referendum on how right you are--it speaks to how much of a dick you're being.. Nothing in particular set Einstein or Feynman apart from their greatest peers besides their celebrity. This is what made them the "geniuses of their time." So, yeah, Hawking kind of was the "genius of our time.". Witten, Tao, et al. "If I have seen further than other men, it's because I have stood on the shoulders of giants." 

In most fields of science, all the great accomplishments have come through teams of people. Not because there aren't any geniuses, but because the amount of work required has become so great that it is ridiculous to pretend any one person could complete it. . Absolutely agree. Man I certainly agree with you that the Ed Witten's of the world probably don't have the popular appeal that Einstein did, but both Hawking and Einstein (in particular) probably deserve the level of fame they've reached.. [removed]. Have you read The Future of the MInd by Michio Kaku? The technology is really getting there. . Good luck. . You got this, now get back to study and learn as much as you can for that final just like Professor would have wanted you to :') 

Humanity needs you in order to advance scientific discovery.. That is really sweet. Thank you. . [deleted]. Ahh, even in death his existence continues to make people question the world they live in. . Depends how fast he was going and how long his ladder and barn were.. This guy. Wow, smart comment . Everywhere else is matter.. Meh, that's rather 31.4, which I guess approximates 10 * pi.. i'd rather memorise 5 digits or more of pi than use such an inaccurate approximation. calculators' saved values are like 10-20 digits anyway.. I found out on /r/politics. :c. It was pretty obvious from first glance that he was trolling, and while I'm sure he's used to being told he's a complete moron, I figured I'd say it anyways. Makes me wonder what somebody must've went through in childhood to make fun of the death of somebody who actually contributed something in his lifetime instead of being a deadbeat on the internet. . Nothing set Einstein apart? Sure, except for revolutionizing the way we look at the universe beyond Newtonian physics.

Einstein became famous after special relativity. I'd be willing to bet that hawking would never have reached the iconic level he attained if not for his appearance.

No disrespect, both guys are great. Einsteins and newtons only come along every few hundred years though.. [deleted]. [removed]. I have a huge backlog of books. I'll get to it.. Thank you. . Somehow, I doubt its me who can advance scientific discovery but hopefully someone will. I'm doing my best to learn. . Look at his comment history. What is a world in the presence of the universe.

"To confine our attention to terrestrial matters would be to limit the human spirit.". Hehe your username made me giggle slightly. Einstein came up with relativity, not Hawking.. 31.4 is a better approximation to pi (even if with a multiple of 10) than 14.3 :P. M_PI is 3.14159265358979323846 and I can't really imagine a realistic situation where that is not more than enough, and replacing the number with just "pi" is not an option. I'd love to say I only know 3 digits of pi because computers are for numbers, but oh, woe be me, I've seen the decimal expansion enough to remember five. I found out from my friend who found out from an Instagram story. Guys, can we try not to screw around with emoticons right now? It doesn't seem entirely appropriate for this thread.. =[. I already responded to this, but the comments got deleted. Einstein became famous for Brownian motion and the photoelectric effect, not special relativity. Special relativity was notable, but only became truly noteworthy once he had completed general relativity -- and he did this by heavily relying on the work of Lorentz and Poincare that was already in place.

He got the credit for revolutionizing the way we look at the universe -- that's why we consider him a "genius of his time." In reality, he didn't do anything that any of the great physicists of his time couldn't have done, but he did it first. This is all I'm getting at when I say that Hawking is just as a much a "genius of our time" as Einstein was (or, at least close enough to, in the sense that their celebrity is really the only thing setting them apart).. You're relying on the celebrity of these men to assume that their work wasn't derivative of the works of their forebears. General relativity was predicated almost entirely on work by Lorentz and Poincare. Feynman's work, while groundbreaking, was also heavily dependent on the work of Murray Gell-man and many others in his field.. [removed]. Well basically we already have the technology to control things by hooking them up directly to our brain and the reaction time is a bit faster too. . > I doubt its me who can advance scientific discovery

Don't create your own barriers. Look at our Professor Hawking,  he was wheelchair-bound during most of his life and still influenced the course of history. :) . exactly. i don't understand anyone using some silly number like 3.14 to "approximate" pi, even if you're working with magnitudes where you could round it to 5 and still be within your desired accuracy- just pressing pi on your calculator is easier anyway.

even as an engineer, you don't really WANT to skirt your tolerances that closely; might as well have as accurate a number as you can.. Woah me too. [deleted]. [removed]. :0(. [removed]. [removed] Picture of a single atom wins Science Photo Contest.. nan. "Damnit we should be seeing an atom at the center!"

"Just MS Paint one in there, nobody will know the difference.". How was this photographed? . I'm going to be doing my master's project this year in the lab where this photo was taken! I actually got shown around the lab a couple of months ago by the research group leader and met the guy who took the picture, and they showed me a trap like the one in the picture.

I see a lot of people here asking about the scale: the gap between the two tips on the left and the right is a couple of millimetres wide. The photo was taken with a consumer camera and lens looking into the viewport of the vacuum chamber the experiment was housed in, with an exposure of 30 seconds.

The (strontium?) ion was illuminated by laser light, which excites the outermost electron to a higher energy level. Upon falling back down to the lower level, the electron emits a photon, and if it gets emitted in the direction of the lens it's captured by the camera's sensor. This occurs often enough that the ion's brightness is comparable to that of the apparatus.. I'm not a scientist, but I think there's more than one atom in this photo.. [deleted]. It *won* a photo contest. This is an old photo. . Awesome! Wish there was a scale though.. Can someone explain how the ratio size of atom:apparatus is so small. Shouldn't atom be far smaller ? Like small enough that it can't be shot with so much of this apparatus in frame ? 

What am I missing ? . Color picture on that scale? Thats electron microscope level.. ENHANCE. They should try splitting it, they would then have two atoms!. Banana for scale?. Okay so it is a single atom, what we see however is the light emitted from exciting it. Correct me if I'm wrong. Probably a long exposure of it emitting light. Am I the only one that just wiped my screen?. Am I the only one that just wiped my screen to be sure?. I want to get a portrait version of this and put it on my wall!. Can someone please explain how one is able to photograph a single atom?

In this rig (which seems to be something that would take up the area of a table at least,) shows a purple dot about the size of a bb/ ball bearing. That can’t be the actual atom.

Thanks. Apparently, such experiments have been accomplished before:

http://teachingkidsnews.com/2013/05/01/1-ibm-produces-worlds-smallest-movie-made-of-atoms/

https://youtu.be/oSCX78-8-q0. https://mymodernmet.com/atom-photo-david-nadlinger/. Zoom!  Enhance!. This is one of my favourite images ever, along with Pale Blue Dot. I like to think about how one represents the tiny of the quantum world and the other the enourmity of the astrophysical world.. Seems very large 
. That's a dot!. How do they manage to use only a single atom? I’m super curious on how they managed to separate it from impurities and any identical atoms. it must of been a very close call, between those 2 pixels.. I love this . Well they are a lot bigger than I thought!!. Banana for scale?. What was the atomic weight of this atom?  How much energy was being pushed into it?

For an atom to be glowing that brightly, there must have been a LOT of valence electrons collapsing to lower orbits, with a lot of energy pushing them to higher orbits.. That's not a single atom.... Rubbish. Lies, light wont bounce off a sigle atom as much as it does in this pic.. I love this . Does that really count?

You can barely see it, no zoomies?

You're the one that took the shitty pictures, not me.. Nah, just smudge the lens a tiny bit, no need to fire up something as sophisticated as MS Paint.. If you think this is cool, you should see some of my pictures of multiple atoms.. [deleted]. [removed]. [deleted]. You can find this in the comments of the original post.. You can sometimes see it by naked eye.. One of the few occasions where 'awesome' doesn't really cover it. Do you have a reference for an article or a person I could look up?
. Username checks ... wait ... not quite. Great info! Would it be accurate to say that the photo doesn't so much show an atom as it shows a single photon emitted by that atom and, since all photons are visually indistinguishable, the image would be identical to any other photo of a single photon?. Sure, but only one of them is distinct.. They should've split it!. I just counted.  There are 11. You're right, but that white point is a atom refracting light while being trapped in a magnetic field, then the camera uses a long exposure (like a time lapse) to see the atom, and the atom itself is way smaller than that, but since it moves and vibrates so much (basic concept of heat) it occupies a way bigger space than its actual size.. Posts sensational Reddit headline about science photo.

Fails to link to photo.

You fail Reddit.. They were able to capture an image of this atom because it was emitting light and in order to have a particle emit light you need it to have normal and excited states that have a wide enough bandgap for light emission. Since elementary particles lack any such structure it is highly unlikely you would be able to capture an image of them.. Quarks are right off, buddy. We'll never see an isolated quark. It's the law. . Nonsense. All Science Photo Contest winners are pictures of atoms.. I was thinking this too. I felt like I had already seen and read about it. . General Reposti!. *see atom for scale. The atom is far smaller, you're looking at the light it is emitting, and a 30 second long exposure at that.. Yea you're correct but that doesn't change anything. That would be like saying you have never seen a tree, only the light emitted from its atoms. Technically correct, also ridiculous. It's implied, no need to specify.. http://www.physics.otago.ac.nz/nx/mikkel/single-atom.html. I love this

Edit : I love this SO MUCH I had to tell you twice

Edit : three times, my connection is fucking with me, I promise you. You are not literally seeing one atom. What you are seeing is long exposure of one atom emitting light, so this light dot is actually quite huge in comparison to the real size of that atom. Sorry for breaking the charm but it's better to know the truth.. If it helps it's a long exposure photo, so technically it's a picture of an atom moving around in a small space . It didn’t bounce the light, it barfed it.. The lens isn’t the image plane, so adding a smear will just mess with the Fourier transform. I get that it was a joke, but it’s actually kind of cool physics! You can really fuck with a lens without ruining the image . Yeah man, I got a photo with like a bazillion atoms in it, and these guys only got one, pfft.. It's long exposure, not a time lapse (but you would get a similar result).

&#x200B;

[https://www2.physics.ox.ac.uk/research/ion-trap-quantum-computing-group](https://www2.physics.ox.ac.uk/research/ion-trap-quantum-computing-group)  
"Note that this is an actual photo of ion and trap, not a montage of separate photos; a long camera exposure time, 30 seconds, was used to capture the faint fluorescence from the single ion."

&#x200B;

But yeah, same concept. It's a blur of where the atom was over 30 seconds.. It's not reflection, it's fluorescence.. [removed]. [removed]. I gave you an upvote, then scrolled down and found out you were wrong...   
[https://www2.physics.ox.ac.uk/research/ion-trap-quantum-computing-group](https://www2.physics.ox.ac.uk/research/ion-trap-quantum-computing-group)  
"Note that this is an actual photo of ion and trap, not a montage of separate photos; a long camera exposure time, 30 seconds, was used to capture the faint fluorescence from the single ion.".  For this reason itis not used by itself, but is added in small quantity to other paints,which it affects by changing their colour, and probably theirdurability. Umm, maybe I'm a little slow, but where is that original post?. Yea I figured that out as soon as I commented. Yup, here's the link to the research group: https://www2.physics.ox.ac.uk/research/ion-trap-quantum-computing-group

They actually have some info on the photo right there in the landing page :). Yeah, the username is a play on the "labcoat = knowledgeable authority" stereotype, not anything to do with me personally :). Not a single photon at all! The process of excitation followed by emission repeats many many times, and so the ion emits a lot of photons over the 30 second exposure.

In regards to the photo showing an atom or showing photons, there's actually no difference! Particles (and by extension atoms and everything else) aren't directly measurable, but their interactions, in this case photons, are. In that sense, observing photons emitted by this ion is observing the ion as much as you might observe any other object in any other photo.. [deleted]. So for the cobalt atom in this picture, is it continuously jumping between the normal and excited states and emitting light when it jumps from one to the other, or is it stuck in one of those states and constantly emitting light? . Well, put a single electron or proton in a synchrotron, and it should be possible. Don't know how we would do something with neutrons though, also since single neutrons are unstable :/. [deleted]. Everything you see is a picture of an atom.. Yeah, they make up everything.. I mean a numerical scale...I get what you're saying though. Aah! Makes sense. 
So it's an atom at an excited state ? . Pointing out the difference between reflection and fluorescence is not ridiculous.. Again, might be wrong, but wouldn't it be impossible for a single atom to reflect light, and only emitt it? . https://www.photonics.com/Articles/Portrait_of_a_Single_Atom/a51386. I know, I was trying to be super funny, but I do appreciate the explanation👍🏻. Well, I am glad that you corrected me in such a courteous manner. It is always interesting to learn new things.. How is a Fourier transform related to photography?. Following up on this comment to point out difference:

Time lapse is a series of photos taken over a long period of time, typically played back at a much higher framerate than captured, and can appear jerky depending on subject and framerate.

Long exposure is a single photo being exposed over a period of time long enough that light can be exposed to more areas than the instance the photo was taken, creating effects that is not possible to human eyes. These are typically done in low light environments with lights generating art, e.g. light trails, fireworks etc. However you can also do that in daytime with anything that moves such as waterfalls by adding a high multiplier neutral density filter so that you can do a long exposure to get fluffy looking water.

Both typically involves the use of a tripod in a stationary position, although it’s more accessible nowadays to do timelapse using robotics to introduce movements, and you can totally do long exposures free hand for some interesting effects as well.

The two things aren’t mutually exclusive either, as you can do timelapse of long exposures in theory, although I’m not sure if I’ve seen that personally (I recall seeing long exposure of night sky with timelapse but might have imagined it). I’ve seen long exposure done with bullet-time effect though which is very cool.. I believe it's also just a single pixel. The atom didn't move that much, it just reflected enough light to register there. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. Ahhhh thank you, I was wondering why people were complaining in the comments, no one seemed to be able to explain it to me. `time-lapse` is absolutely the wrong term, the process I described is overlay merging (digital artificial long exposure). I did not even realize I had said time-lapse when re-reading it.  Editedd. It's a crosspost from r/pics to r/Physics so just click on the caption under r/pics and it will get you to tier original post. Well then :). We can't photograph atoms at their "actual" size. What we're seeing in this photo is the light emitted from a single cobalt atom held in suspension. Strontium has an excited state, which this atom was in, that gives off light we can see with the naked eye or in this case a camera. 

Think if you and a friend were standing on two opposite hilltops with unobstructed views, miles away from one another. There's no way you could see each other as the distance is too great for our eyes to make out any detail of one another. Fortunately your friend gets excited and lights off a huge firework! Unfortunately, it goes off right where he's standing giving his exact location. Morbidity aside, he's pretty easy to spot despite the large distance due to the large amount of energy released. That's essentially what we're seeing here.

Edit: Strontium not cobalt.. It’s basically overexposed; it has so much light of the right frequency focused on it that the photons it absorbs and re-emits are way more intense than that from any other single atom in the image.. I want to know this too. My guess is that one atom at a time is being energized somehow and we are seeing the resulting energy? Like the photons emitted by a single atom's electrons. Non physics person uneducated guess . Once it emits light, the atom falls back to its ground state, and needs to be re-excited again before it can emit light again. This photo was just a single shot taken with a camera with a long exposure time. . The the atoms emits lights when it returns to its ground energy state. The electron falling from higher to lower energy levels causes the emission of a photon. Mind boggling stuff !. for some extra info if you're interested: we'll never be able to see single quarks because quarks cannot exist singularly. Quarks have a property called "color" (it's not actual color, it's just what we call it). A combination of quarks MUST be color neutral, which means it must either contain all the quark colors (red, blue, green), or its colors must negate (eg: red and anti-red, anti-red being an anti-matter quark with the "red" color). If a combination is not color neutral, the laws of quantum mechanics are being violated, and thus a single quark cannot exist, they MUST come in either pairs (meson particles, consisting of a quark and an anti-quark, which are very short lived since they inevitably annihilate because matter+antimatter annihilates) or in trios (baryon particles, consisting of 3 quarks, such as protons and neutrons)

Those who know more of elementary particles, i know this is not the whole story... i'm trying to simplify it so a layman can understand without first having to explain superpositions and conservation of quantum numbers... . how can atoms be real if our eyes aren't real. I was just kidding :P. It is repeatedly excited by laser.. Are you trying to win a "splitting hairs" award? This atom is fluorescing - when you shin light at it, it absorbs the light and then re-emits it. . Good question. Photography is all about light, and light is just electromagnetic waves. It turns out that the interactions between these waves and the parts of the camera can be understood using [Fourier optics](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourier_optics). 

Long story short, it is extremely related!. Pretty sure that timelapse of long exposures is used extensively in astrophotography

Not sure what else would use it though. . [removed]. [deleted]. That's cool you know so much about photography and stuff but your orig comment is still incorrect and gathering upvotes.. So, I’m on mobile. Would anyone happen to have a link?. Thank you for the analogy! It’s rare that someone manages to find an explanation that my dumb ass can actually understand.. RIP his friend. Never forget.. Your analogy could have just been a flashlight. . Thank you for giving such a simple explanation. I feel this gives the key idea compared to the explanation by /u/Geedunk (which also good, doesn't accurately represent what's going on I feel).

Reading his explanation made me think first thing (holy shit, the energy state transition of that single atom released enough energy that we can see it?!?!?!), but no, it's many such energy transitions, **NOT** a single transition.. It's basically a long exposure to capture enough photons. You are correct in your premise though, just that it's being repeatedly energized.. [deleted]. [removed]. What’s incorrect about it? I’m happy to edit it, just a little confused by the statement. 

Edit: I’m guessing this is about exposure vs frame overlay? The camera is digital so the difference is incredibly unimportant in my opinion but I’ll of course edit it in to the original comment. . Here: https://redd.it/9j0x0h. And the pyramids could have just been a single story tall. . This is why you'll never make it as a wizard. . Well if you understand superposition to some extent then I can elaborate: the colors of quarks are a little more complicated... I said something like a proton consists of 3 quarks (those quarks have flavors: up, up, down in the case of protons) , and those quarks combine red, blue and green color to become color neutral, but that's not the whole story. Every proton is actually a superposition of all "color neutral" arrangements of its composite quarks. That means a proton is actually a superposition of all color/flavor combinations such as:

Red up, blue up, green down + red up, green up, blue down + blue up, green up, red down + etc etc.

The same holds true for meson particles (pairs of quark+antiquark)... If you have a particle with up+antiup quarks, it is actually a superposition of all its possible color-neutral arrangements:

Red up, antired up + blue up, antiblue up + green up, antigreen up.

It's truly fascinating to think that EVERY. SINGLE. PARTICLE that is made up of quarks, those being pretty much all "massive" particles, is a superposition quantum-state of at least 3 different compositions...People think of superpositions as these strange phenomena, but in fact you have billions upon trillions of superpositions in your body right now... . [removed]. Whoa, cool! Thanks!. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed] Playing around with an inductively coupled plasma from early in my phd. nan. That's a fabulous appearance.. could you explain to us who aren't familiar,

What's going on?   

What's the gas? How much energy? How's this confined and focused?. That's really cool. Well, it's probably several thousand Kelvin, but it's still cool.. this is so cool!!!

i’m a freshman chemistry major in undergrad at the moment, the lab i work at often uses an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer. i still don’t really understand the machine itself, but i know that we use it to measure really low concentrations. i guess it makes sense that it exists, but chalk that up to a big lack of experience, ive never heard about ICP from a physics perspective. super cool to see it!!. Anyone can do something simmilar online. https://scied-web.pppl.gov/rgdx/ enjoy. What a small world, I use ICP technology at work to make nanoparticles. We have a 100kW torch.. I used to use this plasma to clean surfaces of electronic materials. That looks like a real life lightsaber lol. Tony Stark forged a new metal with this... inna cave!! 😂

Seriously though, good science is always playful ✨. Just curious: what is the rest of the apparatus beyond what we see? I assume the discharge is different on the two sides of the coil because there is a flow of gas at some very small pressure?. Very wicked looking!. Do you know what it would look like if the coil wasn’t there? Distance of plasma, brightness, or color. Do any of those change much in the same setup?. What was your thesis on?. You get all of the fun toys.. Lol okay ironman 👌. [removed]. This is cool as fuck bro. That’s incredible.. Does the plasma release any ionizing radiation?. How did you measure the peak to peak wavelength difference?. Will we have a chance to see plasma gun, like in the game And such ?  In the near futur ? 
Please light my lanterne 
A stupid old daydreamer!. u/savevideo. What's the progress from late in your phd?  


Are the waves an artifact of the camera?  Can you see them with the naked eye?. All materials science labs look the same, don't they. This could have been in any of the universities I worked in.

I'm going to guess you do some kind of PCVD in there.. Could someone dumb down an explanation of what plasma is to me please. I have so many questions!! I will go and research it now. Thank you so much. So a plasma is a gas or cloud of molecules where you put so much energy into it that it can rip the electrons off the atoms. As the electrons recombine with the atoms, the give off light which is the glow you see.

An inductively coupled plasma (ICP) is a type of plasma where you pump in high power radio waves as a source of energy using the coil you see in the video as an "antenna". You can think of it like an electrical transformer where the primary winding is the antenna and the plasma itself is the secondary winding. ICPs are very efficient and can dump a heap of power leading to very intense plasmas.

This was an oxygen plasma at 100W, the confinement is probably due to the very intense magnetic field generated by the coil (it maxed out my 1 Tesla  magnetometer) 

I still have no idea why you see the "bands" or disks appearing but I think it may be due to the plasma grounding out on the end cap of the tube and forming a standing wave. If anyone has any ideas, that would be fantastic.. On the left you have bumpy plasma, and on the right, there's a lightsaber.  Seems self-explanatory to me.. It is exactly the same principle, this is just what's going on in the guts of the MS. You use a carrier gas, usually Argon to generate a high power inductively coupled plasma. The energy from the plasma is sufficient to smash all your analyte species into atomic and small molecular fragments which are then analysed by your TOF or quadruple etc.. Thanks! Just took a turn. That's so neat!. Cool cool cool. 100kW, yikes that's a lot of power. It's a tube furnace, gas flows in on one side and out the other. I'm not using the furnace part, it's just convenient. The high temperature quartz tube is the perfect dielectric for this kind of plasma. The coil is generating the plasma so it would look rather boring. It was fairly uncontrolled so the conditions would change between runs. A ruler. ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/katusd/playing_around_with_an_inductively_coupled_plasma/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo). PhD is still in progress, had a pretty drastic change in topic as lots of phd students do.

It looks pretty much the same with the naked eye, it looks much better without the camera actually because the exposure wouldn't go low enough to avoid saturation.. They do look all the same. That's what happens when labs are designed by scientists haha highly optimised.

That is correct, you can see some of the deposits around the coil. I discovered this during a cleaning run with oxygen flowing. A plasma is a gas or cloud of molecules or atoms where enough energy has been pumped into it that the electrons are ripped off the atoms. When the electrons then recombine with the atoms, they give off their excess energy as light which is the glow you see. So I am by no means a physicist, but I do love me some radio nerd shit.

If you were using RF energy at a fixed frequency, could you measure the space between the "waves" in your tube and see if they correspond to the frequency wavelength or it's harmonics in any significant way?

If the emitter isn't tuned it may be pretty hard to verify that was the case.. You get waves like this is cylindrical helicon sources due to the drop off in number density and b field down the tube. Might be an avenue to pursue.. Thanks.. it's even more interesting now.

Are electrons completely separated from the protons?  I'd think this pattern shows something about the Oxygen atom.. having a highly polar quality. (H2 attaches in specific places because of this) But that wouldn't be useful explainatiin if the O atom has few orbiting electrons.. I first asked a question about your overhead lights - which I would still like to know. But, I am actually thinking something different.

It looks to me like the formation of a P-Wave from the movements of the oxygen gas in your cylinder. When the plasma heats up, it does so non-uniformly across the radius of your cylindrical slice - and down the length of the tube. That causes a flow of the gas. The accelerating gas hits the far wall then travels backwards up the cylinder. The shape comes from the physical balancing of the pressure between the cool gas and the heated plasma. That’s why sometimes the waves seem to travel and others not. Complex equilibrium.

My hypothesis. :)

Edit: That might also be caused by a flow of the charged oxygen atoms. When they hit the wall and give up their charge, they travel back up the tube along the outside. Still a P-Wave, but a variation on the mechanism.

Edit 2: Might also be a manifestation of the Flying Spaghetti Monster. May you be blessed by His Noodliness.. Do you know what is physically happening just before the “waves” appear? The increased brightness followed by the settling in of the “waves” after the plasma reaches the end. It certainly, visually to me at least, looked like the formation of a standing wave.. Is it plausible that the ionized gas can be described as a phase separation of gas and plasma in a similar way that liquid will phase separate into gas, or how grain regions will phase separate in an alloy? The Landau free energy construction will allow for spatial inhomogeneities that can model phase separation phenomena. Perhaps, there is a certain energy functional that may describe these plasma - gas discs. In that case, we could hypothesize that the discs are an artifact of the surface energy between plasma and gas.. Looks like your classic sausage instability.. Nowhere near my field, but these look very similar to shock/mach diamonds. W the oblique shock being induced by the magnetic field instead of air pressure? Wikipedia page on shock diamonds even has a reference to them potentially being formed by radio jets from quasars. Your grounding theory seems pretty convincing though, and I'm not sure how that would jive with that.. It's inductively coupled but is there any applied axial field? This looks a lot like banding of the positive column in a glow dishcharge. When the electrons reach a certain energy along the axis they're able to excite neutral oxygen atoms which emit light upon returning to their ground state. In doing so they give up energy to the atom and begin to accelerate back to that energy once again, repeating the process and creating a banded emission structure. The fact that it leans towards one side of the tube also seems to imply that this might be it. That said I know I've seen banding in tubes due to off-axis fields but I can't remember exactly why, plus this isn't off axis.. What would happen if you broke the glass. >*very intense magnetic field generated by the coil (it maxed out my 1 Tesla magnetometer)*

&#x200B;

You should double check that. To obtain 1 Tesla magnetic field inside of the coil of these dimensions (about 30 cm diameter x 50 cm long, 5 turns), the current would need to be on the order of 100 KA. Since the coil resistance will be on the order of 0.1 Ohm at the working frequency of 13.56 MHz, the dissipation would need to be on the order of a gigawatt. The 1 Tesla measurement is not very plausible.. Hey, not a physicist but a computer scientist and I’m very familiar with trying to track down the underlying causes of behavior I do not understand, so I wanted to share a possible investigative technique you can use to structure your thinking and testing to find the source of the bands. 

The first is the “5 whys” think from lean. Start with an observation “at whatever temperature and whatever energy level, this happens” then ask yourself “how did this happen” and don’t answer the root, just further describe the situation at the next logical thing you do know and work backward. 

Add to this the principle of halves. In any system, you can divide the behavior in “half” if you imagine the system from end to end. For example, the first part of your system is your power source and the last part is the gas (I’m assuming), so think as the plasma effects as riding on the “chassis” of this system. Now if you want to know why something is happening, you start by dividing the system in half, let’s say the coil is the half in this case, then you would say, anything on this side of the power and tube side of the coil is half A, anything on the energy and gas side of the coil is half B, then, then you design experiments just to tell you which side of the system the effect is being affected by. Then once you figure out which side, you then make a new “half” at the midpoint of that system and iterate like that until you have your eureka moment. 

Good luck. Sorry if I just told you something you already know. I obviously don’t know physics but I know how to troubleshoot complex systems. Cheers.. Complete shot in the dark, but is it a [wake field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plasma_acceleration)? It just kind of looks like it.. I’m very novice at all of this, so forgive me if this is a stupid question, but why can’t the discs/balls of plasma be explained simply by the strong magnetic field you mentioned since plasma tends to be diamagnetic and so will be slightly forced to areas of weak magnetic field? It seems to me that those bands could just be the reverse of the pattern you see when iron shavings are exposed to a magnetic field. Again, it would be extremely helpful if someone can explain why I’m wrong here.. Quick guess might be like a waveguide mode, TE01.  Balanis, 1989, Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics, pages 480, 492.  

Not a plasma expert, so would need to think about boundary conditions; once the plasma forms in the tube, it may set up the waveguide boundary itself, whereas prior to excitation, there is no conductive boundary along the tube without the plasma itself - a fun chicken and egg thing, maybe.. >	I still have no idea why you see the “bands” or disks appearing but I think it may be due to the plasma grounding out on the end cap of the tube and forming a standing wave. If anyone has any ideas, that would be fantastic.

Google plasma striations. Lots of images and papers discussing it. Not super well understood, as they are very system dependent.. Such bright disks (striations) are fairly common in (spacially) long glow discharges. If I remember correctly they are caused by the quantized states of the atoms electrons. The bright disks appear at places where the free electrons have acquired enough kinetic energy for inelastic scattering, transferring most of their energy to an electron in an atom. The glow is then due to deexitation of these atoms. After the scattering event, the free electron is again accelerated in the electric field until it can again be inelastically scattered by an atom which leads to the next bright disk.

I only know this phenomenon from DC-discharges, but maybe a similar effect can occur in a RF-plasmas as well.. Aren’t the dark regions just Faraday dark spaces? Super common in terrella icp experiments (aurora chamber) a.o.. It looks like the spacing of the bands in the plasma is about the same as the spacing of that spiral winding around that black part of the tube. What is that? Is there any way that could be causing it somehow?. The bands only seem to appear after the ionized region extends to the end caps. Presumably the current dramatically increases when the plasma has contact with a grounded electrode.  Maybe you are seeing the striations you would expect in a dc driven plasma. 

https://digitalcommons.bard.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1032&context=senproj_s2017. that's *nuts*. can i ask what you mean by TOF/quadruple?. Yeah, their torches are designed to vaporize even the most refractory metals (e.g. tungsten) in fractions of a second, so needs to be pretty intense.. Thank you. So, which way does the gas flow in this video, and at what pressure?. So the coil is fed with the 100w then?. Oh I didn't know this.. Damn, nice lol. In my urge to imagine elaborate technical scenarios,  I forgot the simple beauty of practicality. Amazing work.. I imagine the tube is in a vacuum, I wonder if there is some of leak or disturbance affecting the pressure and creating turbulence that makes the wave? 
What did you switch topics to? 

I'm at the beginning of my studies and only in an associates (second degree, first was non-accredited) but plan to work into a PhD (to pursue academic research) and this field seems interesting.  I'm not sure entirely how you select a field to specialize in or what it will look like half a decade from now when I can begin.  I am interested in physical phenomena, particularly waves.  Frequency waves, audio waves that influence shapes (chladni plates) and the waves that generate electromagnetism.  Seems everything is controlled with waves and I cant wait to learn more about them as I enter physics courses.    Anywhere I can follow along your journey and see your research?

The thing that boggles me is that pure research is hard to come across, at least to me.  I don't know where to go to find good resources.  If there were something like a youtube, but specifically for research videos of experiments and such, that would be AMAZING.  How do you keep up and stay current in your research?  Any tips?. Oh wow, thank you so much. Can we use plasma in anyway? If so, why is it better than other ways?. It was a 13.56 MHz RF source. I did the maths and it corresponds to a wavelength of 22.11m so it would have to be a ridiculously high harmonic to get the spacing I saw. I still have no idea what is causing it. Wanted to say this, thanks

Edit: Terminology:

B-field: Magnetic field, pseudo-vector

number density: of atoms

cylindrical helicon waves: a type of EM wave that is low frequency and can exist near confined plasma (like your tube). Usually it's just one electron which is removed from the atom, sometimes 2 at higher power so there are still plenty of electrons still attached to the atom.

It could be polarising the oxygen atoms and bunching them up due to repulsion by the RF wave but they should be much further apart given the frequency of the RF wave (13.56 MHz) corresponding to a wavelength of 22.11m. It could be either the plasma grounding out to the end cap or the transition from the ICP E mode to H mode. Basically E mode is where the electric field is providing the power to the plasma and H mode is where the coil is inductively coupled to the plasma and has a characteristic jump in plasma intensity. I'm not entirely sure about that. If it were to phase separate like a liquid /gas, it likely wouldn't form bands like that but rather a big blob.

I think the ion species are too short lived before they form back into atoms. The electrons being very light are very fast and they will recombine with the ions to form atoms again before the ions have a chance to separate.. I did consider some kind of supersonic flow in the tube causing Mach diamonds and some kind of pressure and hence plasma density changes across the tube. The speed turned out to be well below supersonic though. Would be really cool to have plasma Mach diamonds though. Plasma Wakefields are generated when a high energy laser pulse is pumped through a plasma. The EM field is strong enough to separate the electrons from the ions. No laser was used in this experiment. It is quite possible that this is caused by a magnetic field, the coil is giving off a very intense magnetic field. The field however would be continuous and most intense inside the coil which would result in the plasma being confined to a big blob inside the coil if this was the only thing going on. This does form blobs but they extend well past the coil and appear very consistent along the length of the tube. I'll have to have a read up on that. From my recollection, I believe that the Faraday dark space would appear near the walls of the tube because of the sheath potential rather than longitudinal bands in the middle. So first you spray or flow in your analyte species (whatever you are trying to measure), it hits the plasma and gets smashed up into all its atomic and molecular components. Now you have a soup of all the fragments of your initial analyte species and you need some way to separate them so you can measure each species individually.

Your *analyzer* is the component in your mass spec which does the separating by mass. A time of flight (TOF) detector relies on the fact that under some kind of accelerating bias, the smaller ions will travel faster and as such reach your detector faster than the heavier ions, thus separating them both by time and mass.

A quadrupole uses a combination of DC and RF fields to fan your components out based on their mass to charge ratio. By tuning the RF field, you can direct just one mass component through an aperture and to your detector.. That sounds pretty awesome. 


This bad boy set off the fire alarms in our building twice from the RF interference because it wasn't properly grounded. You guys must have some hardcore shielding.. From left to right at around 1mbar of oxygen. It's a bit tricky too because the coil is closer to one end of the tube than the other. Yes, 100W of RF power at 13.56 MHz.. There are many many applications for plasmas, depositing materials, etching materials, changing surface properties of materials, generating light, growing diamonds, cutting metals etc.. Alfvén waves?

[Edit] Can't be ordinary Alfvén waves without a constant magnetic field.. You can determine harmonics if you measure the S11 of the setup. I’m sure you’ll need shielding but hook up a VNA to the coil while it’s running and you may see the corresponding peaks. It would be about 2.3 GHz for the 13cm spacing. Maybe Wi-Fi interference somehow?. I have never messed around with ICP, but I've messed around with a Franck-Hertz demo lamp.

Are electrons being accelerated along the axial direction "down tube"? Maybe that's what's causing the excitation at those intervals.

No clue, just spitballing here lol. do you happen to have the distance from peak to peak or peak to trough handy?. I've got a couple theories, but I should say I have a minimal physics background. My expertise is in radios. 

1) I wonder if the plasma was acting as a sort of undamped tank circuit and ringing at a frequency significantly higher than the input, with the resonant frequency determined by the geometry of the chamber. The same basic principle is used to drive some types of tesla coils at a secondary frequency of up to several hundred kiloHertz, with a primary input of only a few hundred to perhaps 5000 Hertz. It's also one way very old RF equipment generated frequencies well above the practical limits of quartz or LC oscillators. Get a nice dirty oscillator, amplify it, filter out the harmonic you want, amplify that, and if you need to go higher still, do the same process with the output and pick a harmonic to filter out. In theory this can be used to attain stupidly high frequencies, limited only by the amplifier's gain at the desired frequency, and with each stage significantly increasing instability of the final signal. If this is what is happening in your case, you've essentially got a frequency multiplier, resonant cavity filter, and perhaps something analogous to a helical Traveling Wave Tube, or maybe more likely a cavity magnetron, all in one package.

2) The standing wave being much shorter than the resonant frequency of the chamber could be due to interaction between two different standing waves of slightly different wavelength/phase, one on each side of the coil.

3) If the frequency were considerably higher or the chamber much larger, perhaps it could be the diameter of the chamber adding additional resonant modes that generate multiple standing waves, but at 13MHz I would think that chamber is a small enough diameter to fit the definition of "arbitrarily small" and it wouldn't look all that different from a wire. That brings up the interesting question of skin effect, however, which can be strongly influenced by magnetic properties of the medium and the surrounding space. Perhaps the magnetic field is generating regions of higher and lower impedance, or shallower and deeper skin depth, that is affecting the excitation of the plasma in those regions.

It would be interesting to know how coil geometry impacted the bands, and it would also be interesting to monitor the near field with a spectrum analyzer capable of operating at 10GHz or so. If theory #1 were the explanation, I'd wager that you'd see a significant peak somewhere in the 2-6GHz range based on the spacing of the bands.

I have the equipment to generate the RF and monitor the output, but I have no means of generating a confined plasma like that to try and replicate the experiment. To say the least, I'm fascinated!. Sorry to dig up an old thread, but it looks like it could be standing waves/resonance with the tube. TE/TM modes maybe. Higher modes would make smaller wavelengths compared the frequency wavelength.   
[https://resources.system-analysis.cadence.com/blog/msa2021-resonant-modes-and-the-lumped-element-model-of-cylindrical-cavity-resonators](https://resources.system-analysis.cadence.com/blog/msa2021-resonant-modes-and-the-lumped-element-model-of-cylindrical-cavity-resonators). Is that black area in the center the antenna (wrapped in something)?  How does peak to peak compare with the antenna winding?. For my PhD I am going to create a RF generator for space missions operating on the same frequency. My university has working prototypes but I am intrigued to know how you approached the plasma generation and what design choices you took! Best regards :). Your last paragraph explains what I was fumbling for. 

As for frequency defining the spacing, it may also have to do with harmonics.. spacing things at 1/2, 1/4, etc of the expected distance. 

(Harmonica is why analog TV had no channel 1.. ch1 interfered with numerous channels at higher frequencies).. Yes, it would not look like a liquid/gas phase separation. However, the Ginzburg-Landau theory describes magnetic phase separation in a superconductor. I suppose what I'm really saying is that it may be possible to find an energy functional that will reproduce your observation.. Does it particularly need to be supersonic? My impression was that they are just a byproduct of the shockwave from the plane breaking the sound barrier, but not actually related to the speed of the exhaust itself (other than the size of the diamonds maybe). Yeah, the dark spaces themselves occur mostly only at one spot. Maybe Franck-Hertz striations though?. You can set off fire alarms with RF interference?. The torch is a commercial product sold to industry, so I’m sure they have that all figured out. There is a Faraday cage that goes around it, with interlocks, so that probably contains a very high percentage of the RF.. The conditions seem to be suitable [for this effect](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/katusd/playing_around_with_an_inductively_coupled_plasma/gfdfbxp?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3), but you would have to investigate further to see if it is the case.. I did consider Alfven waves and plasma helicons. I just assumed that the field strength was too low for Alfven waves and its not really a helix which rules out helicons. Wifi maybe but the power required to create banding like that from wifi would be huge. Approximately 13 cm peak to peak. It gets even weirder, each band is actually separated into 2 sub-bands


 https://imgur.com/gallery/Tj4m3rW. Yes, that's the antenna. I wrapped it in PTFE tape so it wouldn't scratch the tube and the black electrical tape is to hold the PTFE on.

The winding spacing is more narrow than the banding by about 1/3.. 13.56 MHz seems to be an industry standard. I'm not particularly sure why this very specific frequency but it's likely a historical thing based on some solid state oscillator. I'll have to read up on that. It's mostly what we had lying around.

The hardest part was tuning the system, creating an impedence matching circuit so that there is no reflection of the RF wave back to the power supply which is basically wasted energy, heating things up, melting things and causing interference. I built a tunable LC circuit to do this, there are plenty of designs online. This is definitely something you will need to read up on as it is arguably as critical as the power supply.. It's been a while since I studied this but I believe that the cone forms because of the compressibility of air above the speed of sound but I may be mixing up Mach cones and Mach diamonds. That being said, the speed of sound decreases with decreasing pressure and the pressure of the tube is very low.

 Perhaps something like this is going on :

- Standing wave generated in the tube between the coil and the end cap

- EM field of the standing wave pushes the charged particles away from the wave

- This causes the charged particles to bunch together and compress causing alternate regions of high and low pressure

- If the pressure is too high or low, plasma cannot be sustained

- The bands we see are the pressure "goldilocks" zones where the plasma is locally sustained

That would be an incredibly complex dynamic system haha its a amazing that it happened by accident. Apparently you can. I also set off the oxygen depletion alarm at the same time which is how I worked out that it was my fault. That would do it. This was more of a home brew set up so probably a bit more dangerous. How much does the Earth's magnetic field affect this system? Is it negligible?. Idk, 13 cm is 2.3 GHz, which is pretty much WiFi. Too coincidental, especially since you have a completely unshielded setup. Your coils could easily be a great pickup. Plus, first, third and fifth harmonics could easily occur depending on the length of your tube.

That looks like a standing wave settling into steady state, but also looks like an improperly modulated AM wave (albeit unlikely since you don't have a fast carrier).

I used to work with ICP etchers for years. What an awesome concept, and the evolution from creating a basic plasma with just diode plates to supplementing them with an RF coil for that exquisite dual control. Loved visualizing the concept in my head. Lol

Raally cool stuff!

Edit: You mentioned somewhere you grounded your system somehow. Someone running a microwave oven in the lab next door? You're picking up something with that coil as an antenna, or some signal from a sloppy lab around somewhere that's bled into the ground has entered the chat. Have had this happen more than once and found the culprit lab(s) after much tearing out of hair!. https://youtu.be/zcpDGKH9_SE 

Way out of my scope but I know this guy discussed bands like that starting at around 40 minutes. Your case seems to be much more extreme though. Hell yeah! Why can't all of reddit be unsolved physics experiments with cool geometric glowy patterns?. This is clearly a warp core!
http://www.stardestroyer.net/wiki/index.php?title=File:Warpcore.jpg. What's the gas density?. Yea I am certainly at a loss at this point. It could be any number of things I don't understand about physics, it could be any number of RF things because the RF is not radiating in free space so it is reflecting and cancelling and amplifying, standing waves maybe, in ways that are probably super-hard to model.

Still a cool experiment, thanks for the video!

edit: do they remain constantly fixed in space or slide up and down the tube?. That's a huge tube if each puck is 13 cm apart! Looks like 40-50cm in diameter!. It’s quite a puzzle.... Tunable? Did you try tuning it while active? If so, did you observe any changes to the banding pattern?. I did consider interference from other labs but it is 3 floors underground surrounded by concrete. The effect was very consistent and I couldn't really find any other high power sources in the area with my RF meter.

It could very well be wifi which would be awesome because then would be really easy to set up an external antenna to provide any "interference" wave I like. Something to look into, thanks!. You are correct, it is a form of cascading effect / avalanche effect where high energy electron create a bright band. And because all the new electrons created lack super high energy to continue the cascade effect there is a dark band. This gap is where these electrons accelerate and gain enough energy to start the effect over and over again.

I suspect if the energy/electric felid used that is used accelerate the electrons is changed the band length should change. While maintaining the RF frequency used to excite electrons out of the band. Solved. Approx 1.16g/m^3 based on my rough calculation. Sometimes they move up and down the tube and sometimes they are static. It wasn't exactly controlled so I couldn't tell you the circumstances for each.. Yeah it's a big tube, I can fit my whole arm inside. This is the kinda stuff that'll keep me up at night! 

Your school have an cellular base station on campus, TDMA, not CDMA? Some, like AT&T, operate LTE at 2.3 GHz. And will have appreciable power to interfere.

Also, what is the spacing of your coils? A fraction or multiple of the modulated wave peak-to-peak under the Teflon tape. That looks less like a standing wave and more like an amplitude modulated wave the more I look at it, max modulation by the coil and zero modulation a few cycles away axially towards the end of the tube.

Aluminum foil as a Faraday cage...yeah, I'm making plans for an experiment you're not even working on anymore!. What if you made a quick faraday cage and observe those results. If it goes away it’s definitely interference.. So OP just solved FTL travel? Cool.. [deleted]. How stable was the frequency of the rf source?  There was no DC field, right?. My estimate would be about 500°C on the inside of the tube. This is mostly due to the kinetic energy of the ions, pretty crazy when you think about it. Even if the circuit is balanced, the AC voltage swing on the outer turns of the coil is probably quite considerable.

Since it couples capacitively to the plasma, there will be axial AC electric field between the outer turns of the coil and the grounded pieces of apparatus that are outside of the frame to the left.

Then, the striations could possibly be related to the axial AC current through the plasma driven by this axial electric field.

**Edit:** This is a simpler case, but it shows that striations are possible with the axial AC electric field ["Striations in a Low-Pressure RF-Driven Argon Plasma"](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4599054). It was rock solid at 13.56 MHz. There was have been some DC coupling if parts of the tube were at a different potential to the coil. I didn't really measure it though. Is there a plasma analog to drift velocity?. Is the gas pressure high? Were you in any danger of the glass tube exploding?. Long shot here, but I've seen microwave oven magnetrons used to induce plasmas in lab setups like yours (tube covered in Faraday case mesh though).  They have the right frequency for the spacing you see. Potato physics. nan. Haha awesome, and a safety tip to boot. This is Dr. Tatiana Erukhimova, a Physics & Astronomy professor at Texas A&M University. Each spring semester, she helps organize the Texas A&M Physics and Engineering Festival, though I'm not sure if that was canceled or went virtual circa. 

Here is another Ted Talk she gave a couple of years ago:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bgP-ZD77TAk

Newton's first law of motion states that "An object at rest stays at rest and an object in motion stays in motion with the same speed and in the same direction unless acted upon by an unbalanced force." Objects tend to "keep on doing what they're doing." In fact, it is the natural tendency of objects to resist changes in their state of motion. This tendency to resist changes in their state of motion is described as inertia.

If you want to overcome inertia, you have to apply force. A force will make something that is still starting to move, like flicking a wad of paper with a pencil will make it move. Also force, due to resistance, will slow or stop something that is already moving. The wad of paper will be slowed by a resistance made by rubbing up against the air it is passing through.


In inertia, there isn’t just one type. Instead, you’ll find three different types of inertia including:

    Inertia of rest - An object stays where it is placed, and it will stay there until you or something else moves it. (i.e. Dust particles stay at rest until you shake a carpet.)
    Inertia of motion - An object will continue at the same speed until a force acts on it. (i.e. Body going forward when a car stops.)
    Inertia of direction - An object will stay moving in the same direction unless a force acts on it. (i.e. One's body movement to the side when a car makes a sharp turn.). Potato Inertia will be my next username. I didn't want to know it, but I found it interesting anyways, thanks.. Her excitement is amazing and the demonstration really good. I'm quite sad that after 5 years of studying physics, I was unsure of what would happen on the spot :/. I wish I had teachers with her enthusiasm when I was in school.. She really knows her potatoes.... That is the biggest potato I have ever seen....... **eats the potato out of the knife instead**. A potato at rest stays at rest.. What a sweet person.. Same way that traditional axe heads and handles are put together, very cool!. That enthusiasm is infectious. I'm off to by the biggest fucking potato I can find. potato physics is best physics. I want to hear more of her lectures. Is that potato inertia.. [deleted]. She's awesome. I love her energy 😅. I love her. Can she be my professor for every class??. Potayta. Wow, I didnt had a happy teacher like this,😭. Thanks lady. 


I think. This is how we seat handles on axes and hammers. I just blew my own (and my gfs) mind with this. Had a much smaller potato, knife and mallet, but it still worked astoundingly well.. Thank you to all the teachers out there like Dr. Erukhimova. You make learning fun because of your joyful passion for the subjects you show us. You share your love of your craft with us and it’s infectious.. Potato physics is my new religion. For a real world example how this is used:

Axe-Handles are attached this way. You fit the handle quite enough so that it holds onto the axehead and then  you hammer it deeper like she did with the knife and potato. After that procedure both handle and head are very tightly interconnected. In the end you drive a splint through the top of the handle to widen that part and "close" it.. Get 2 materials with highers coefficients of friction and see if your "it's inertial" explanation works.... I love how excited she is. She can teach me anything lol. And here we teach that there are multiple genders and you get to decide.. I can see her bringing a potato and a knife to parties to show this off. I remember! This is the egg lady.  Hyeaah!. I bet the potato is not GLaD at all.. This blew my mind. I love how excited this person is. cool. Yes, this is the way. If you’re not having fun teaching Science you’re doing something wrong. Also, nobody else in the room is having fun either.. I feel like this only works if you let the knife move within your hand, that way on the down strike the knife moves deeper in the potato. But if the knife was held in place with say, a vice, the vibrational shock from the impact would probably make it drop.. Another reason to love potatoes. I love potato physics 😋. ‘LiKe ThIS’. Shazam!. Spoiler: The potato goes up. Ok but if I bring a potato, mallet and knife to school I get in trouble.. Potatoes are neat. Yo mama so fat, she's a fat potato..

Quantized Inertia is cool.. Is this r/oddlyterrifying worthy?. I want to be this happy stabbing potatoes.. Poor potato. 😭. Fun fact: a potatoe shaped object is the standard model to explain rigid body motion in physics.
[https://galileoandeinstein.phys.virginia.edu/7010/CM_23_files/image033.png](https://galileoandeinstein.phys.virginia.edu/7010/CM_23_files/image033.png). A most interesting, although non-intuitive way to explain inertia.. she looks so happy 😊. We need to try this with a person so we can be sure. She has amazing teacher energy. The best kind!. Anyone who handled hammers, axes etc where handle is loose knew this from age of 5 probably tbh. When your physics teacher is moonlighting as a vampire killer. It’s a potatoooooo. This is how you tighten a hammer head. Hit the bottom end of handle with another hammer.. Please tell me there's more of this. John Cusak’s mom from Better Off Dead is a physics professor???. She’s exactly the kind of teacher that would raise the grades of her class by how enthusiastically she teaches alone.  Is there more content?. Can this lady teach me everything?. Random fact,  this is how you put an axe head on a Handle.. Conclusion : Potatoes love to be stabbed.. I'd subscribe to her cooking show.. This is how old wood planers worked.. TEXAS A&M REPRESENT!. Loved this post. I'm not a student but physics Is one of my scientific passions.. Finally, a quality potato video instead of a potato quality video. I use this same technique each time I have to put a new handle on my potato 🥔. there's a much better , fascinating thing about this " main secret ingredient " of culinary arts that make soups & dishes flavorful as well as rich in starch ( & including our beloved French fries , too ) :

potatoes who 1st cultivated by the incan empire in South America around 500 BC after being conquered by Spanish conquest in 16th century , eventually brought it to Europe in 1845 thereafter ( there's more than 16 varieties of potatoes in the infamous Macchiu Picchu city high up in Peru & one of them is a potent cure in erectile dysfunction or sex drive natural stimulant herbal medicine ) where the Irish were the dominant consumer

relatively easy to grow even in less fertile soil compared to wheat when cultivated , it produces better yields ; it contains 3 % protein which could be ideal to combine with eggs for a balanced person's dietary supplement for it's amino acid content ( better consumed whole with unpeeled skin since the nutrients lies thin underneath when boiled after thoroughly washed ) ; " umami " -- the 5th basic taste after sour , salty , bitter & sweet -- like all other starchy foods that we used to indulge ( including seafoods ) is what basically contains it. u/savevideo. Wow I really wanna show off this demo in class, neat!. Potatoes gonna potate. If there was a thick stick instead of a knife, would the potato fall?. Bricked up ngl. Her joy is infectious. How. Is there a way to find how how many subs this has been posted too?. This is actually how axe heads are hung onto handles before being wedged!. “Like this!!” I lost it.. She's so excited. Absolutely love how thrilled she is, makes the experiment even more interesting. She sounds like she has a pretend accent. What is this magic. Such enthusiasm 🙂. That woman is a teacher with every atom of her happy being. I know she has students across several generations who thank her every year. I know it.. [deleted]. Gig’em!. she's a great talker, watched that all the way through. Big up Doc Tatiana, we need more professors with your enthusiasm.. What's this about highly inertial potatoes?. Apparently I’m a genius of potato physics, and given my heavy weight, no one in my life would be surprised.. Yeah that’s because you’ve seen too many things that are counter intuitive.  

And you’ve learned to question everything

Physics education win.. In fairness it could very easily just fall off the knife if friction isn't enough to hold it on when the knife decelerates and the potato has to use it's friction to also decelerate. I imagine you would want to do it with a fresh firm potato that has ideally been refrigerated to maximize the friction and make this result more predictable.. Somebody's never hafted an axe head, and it shows. Ľ̵͕͑I̷͙͗͝K̷̩͌E̵̢͎͒͝ ̸͈͊̅Ț̵͖̀̑Ĥ̷̩Í̴̹͌͜Ś̷̱̱ 👹. And knives!. She just thinks they're neat!. That‘s because she‘s eastern European. Potatoes here are the main dish, the side dish, the drink. Potatoes are life. Lesson #1 for physics teachers and demonstrations: Always weight the odds in your favor.. Gig 'em. Make the potato big enough and it will. It didn’t get the cake. I can absolutely confirm this. She was my physics professor 10 years ago and coming across this post brought me so much joy.. Reminds me of my calc 1-3 teacher. He was a good man.. Ty for this. Also depends on how strong you are. If you're really strong your hand won't move much, and the force will more easily go into freeing the potato.. I think I agree. Aha the Marge Simpson reference “I just think they’re neat”. I hope you meant to say increas its mass... my argument stands, just increase the coefficient of friction until it fully counteracts mg on the object. That’s amazing! Who is she? Does she have a YouTube with a PATREON?
I could probably learn as much from her about being happy as with the phyziks.. Is she on YT? I'd love to see more of here.. I think the two things to consider are that the potato can already stay on the knife at the start, and the hammer strike means the jerk on the knife is a lot higher in one direction than the other.  As long as those two things are true then the result is the potato climbs the knife.  If she changed at the end to striking with an upward blow of the hammer then the potato would move down.  Presumably a horizontal strike would have the same effect of the potato moving towards the hammer, but it’d be more difficult to manage torque and the integrity of the potato in that direction.  

Also interesting to me that people can intuitively apply the same concept for something like scooting on a wheeled chair but when you change the specifics or orientation that intuition can fail.  I’ll admit that my first instinct was for the potato to fall off, but as soon as I saw the first couple hits I understood why and if I had actually taken a few minutes to consider the system instead of just the moment the video allows I might have come up with the correct prediction.. Seconded. That's the one :). Yes there are any number of ways in which you could counteract the effect being shown so that it would not longer demonstrate the physics concept trying to be taught. We could drive a nail through the potato and knife for instance. But there really wouldn't be any point in that would there?

The demonstration does a great job of showing the effects of inertia.. She definitely didn’t when I was still in school. I found her personal page tho, looks like she has some cool resources on there: http://people.tamu.edu/~etanya/. How Strange that in the late 90s there was an applicable Simpsons reference for basically any conceivable situation and now there are *technically* far more potential Simpsons references but somehow far fewer applicable Simpsons references.. Thank you. I will be both pondering and lamenting that all da. Quantum mechanical simulation of the cyclotron motion of an electron confined under a strong, uniform magnetic field, made by solving the Schrödinger equation. As time passes, the wavepacket spatial distribution disperses until it finally reaches a stationary state with a fixed radial length!. nan. In the visualization, the color hue shows the phase of the wave function of the electron ψ(x,y, t), while the opacity shows the amplitude. The Hamiltonian used can be found in this [image](https://imgur.com/a/NBi3HFl), and the [source code of the simulation here](https://github.com/quantum-visualizations/qmsolve/blob/main/examples/time%20dependent%20solver%20examples/2D_cyclotron_orbit_magneticfield.py).

In the example, the magnetic field is uniform over the entire plane and points downwards. If the magnetic field points upwards, the electron would orbit counterclockwise. Notice that we needed a magnetic field of the order of thousands of Teslas to confine the electron in such a small orbit (of the order of Angstroms), but a similar result can be obtained with a weaker magnetic field and therefore larger cyclotron radius.

The interesting behavior showed in the animation can be understood by [looking at the eigenstates of the system](https://imgur.com/a/d4rw3rr). The resulting wavefunction is just a superposition of these eigenstates. Because the eigenstates decay in the center, the time-dependent version would also. It's also interesting to notice that the energy spectrum presents regions where the density of the states is higher. These regions are equally spaced and are called **Landau levels**, which represent the quantization of the cyclotron orbits of charged particles.

These examples are made [qmsolve](https://github.com/quantum-visualizations/qmsolve), an open-source python open-source package we made for visualizing and solving the Schrödinger equation, with which we recently added an efficient time-dependent solver!

This particular example was solved using the Crank-Nicolson method with a Cayley expansion.. Nice work👍🔥. Would this work with dirac equation or would it resolve to the same thing?. This is exactly what I see when i get a migraine.. Impressive!. [removed]. explain to me like i'm 5?. I am not from the field, however I find work and description like this to be powerful and valuable.  Thanks for sharing.. Is this an electron? Could someone explain what I'm looking at like Im 5?. Wish I had a better physics education. Remind anyone else of watching a plucked guitar string?

Just an observation, I’m not about to blurt out ‘*the universe is all just vibration, man*’ or something.. Very cool!. i love it!. Love this. VERY impressive!!. Ok, maybe science fiction technobabble isn’t so far fetched as I initially presumed.... Sounds cool but when is it going to finish loading?. Nice work! I love seeing !!!. Very, very cool!

…how painful would it be to add an external E field normal to your B and animate up the helix :D ?. My username is most appropriate, but it's been a while.

I love how the density of states first makes lobes, like a guitar pick, and as the acceleration increases those different peaks become muted out into a toroid. What determines the radius of the donut, the initial position?

If you pause the video at later stages, it looks like a twisting knot or the inside of a tornado, perhaps what we'd imagine a wormhole looks like. Neat!. This visualization is so relaxing 😌. Very hypnotic to watch. Do I see the golden ratio in there? Reminds me of sunflower seeds. I came to the comments to find out how the cat is doing.. Are you simulating the oscillating electric field of the cyclotron too, and the EM radiation from the electron?. Big whoop. [removed]. I'm getting a sudden and undeniable urge to buy a Whopper with cheese.. Look like the torus model of the universe. ELI5 please?. Yep, those are all words that's for sure.. Interesting that it seems to look and behave similar to a black hole. The self-similarity reminds me of Chaos Theory.. [removed]. I like that mixed coiling like a snake. What is that music from?. It’s like real time spirograph art!. Matplotlib question: how do you have the phase color map not dominate the background? Phase=0 doesn’t map to black in the color mapping you chose for phase, so how do you avoid matplotlib making the entire figure some non black color?. Dumb question: how is it possible to simulate a quantum dynamical system using a deterministic computer?. Should we be seeing this electron generate synchrotron radiation?. I'm a high schooler who failed algebra I need small words to understand what's going on. They've gone to plaid!. One day I want to be smart enough to understand this. How fast are they going?. It makes me giddy. Electron be tripping. This is very psychedelic. I like that video, it is kind of trippy.. underated comment. It's good to have one of the creators here. I have some questions, in regards to implementing QM solvers in general in Python:

* does OOP style not slow down the simulation? I understand OOP is a great approach for maintaining and extending projects (and the paradigm Python itself promotes at fundamental level), but if you were making personal code on Python, would you still go the OOP way?

* you `import m_e, Å` and other constants: are you using SI units here? If so, wouldn't scaling to atomic units lead to more accurate (and faster) results?. Why are the eigenstates so square?. Thank you for this. Do you have anything like this that shows bound electrons as temperature is increased?. Where would one find a magnetic field with a strength of thousands of teslas? Are there any man-made environments that reach those strengths? Or do we have to look at pulsars for those kinds of fields?. Did you try the chebychev expansion for the time evolution?. Well done Reddit person!. Oh my god the time lapse. Ridiculous.. Would it be correct to say that an area with a high density of eigenstates can be a real quantized value of a wave-function even for broader applications? Or does this only apply to cyclotronic acceleration of an electron. I am trying to understand eigenstates a bit better, as I was just exposed to the term for the first time in my math methods course. I should probably let you know i havent had my first quantum course yet, but i have done some independent studies on the topic.. > can be understood by looking at the eigenstates of the system. 

In what gauge?. A very interesting thing to study. Here the electron moves about 1% of the speed of light, so relativistic effects shouldn't be very noticeable. Therefore Dirac equation isn't required for important corrections.

However, I would like to test this example in the future with a speed that constitutes a more significant percentage of light speed a see what happens!. I was thinking a similar thing. I had a seizure and passed out once. This is what it looked like about 2 seconds before.. That's exactly what I see, too. Almost caused a headache looking at it.. [deleted]. It's like if you leave your kid unattended in a market you don't know where they are unless you find them..... Surplus. Electrons are so tiny and move so fast that they act like a wave instead of distinct particles, which means we can't really directly measure them. Even light particles would alter their state. So we can only somewhat know an electron's state using *probability*. As in, given certain conditions, electron A should be between X and Y and will have Z energy. The probability of where and how an electron behaves is its *wavefunction*. If we limit the conditions of where an electron can be using a magnetic field, we can plot those probabilities (wavefunction). When we plot it over time we can see how those probabilities change. This animation shows the changes in probability of an electron confined by a magnetic field over incredibly small time scales. It's slowed down for us to enjoy.. That's actually a very good analogy!

At the moment the guitar string is plucked, it has a certain shape (like two lines at an angle, in the simplest model).  This localized excitation corresponds to a superposition of the fundamental mode and the harmonics.  The position and intensity of the pluck determines the relative intensity and phase of each mode.  In the resulting vibration, each mode propagates on the string according to its own energy and phase.  The phase difference between the modes eventually smooths out the initial triangular shape into a more complicated shape of interacting waves of different frequencies.

Mathematically speaking the exact same situation occurs for the electron in OP's simulation.  The initial state of the electron is highly localized.  Its state is a superposition of the modes allowed by the presence of a strong magnetic field.  After the initial moment, each component of the superposition evolves in time according to its own phase.  The phase difference between different components eventually smears out the wave function from its localized state into a more complicated shape of interacting waves of different frequencies.

Certainly there is a lot of similarity between the two situations, and that is precisely because they both involve the confinement of a vibrating system.  Notwithstanding all the hippy-dippy woo, that is what's happening here.

By the way, the analogy breaks down once you consider dissipative effects which act upon a vibrating guitar string.  Drag forces deplete the energy of the vibration, and the higher harmonics decay faster than the lower harmonics and fundamental.  I don't think there is an analogous effect in the cyclotron orbits of an electron.. Also reminds me of a black hole. 😯. It could be done. Just we need to adequately implement the 3d time-dependent solver. We probably need to create some external file to save the data of the simulation or just render while computing the simulation, because they are going to be required several GB of data that no RAM can hold.. Came here to say this!! A 3d visualization would be incredible. The toroid/vortex stuck out to me as well.. All plants seemingly have a ‘Scientific name’. The Sunflower is no different. They’re called Helianthus. Helia meaning sun and Anthus meaning Flower. Contrary to popular belief, this doesn’t refer to the look of the sunflower, but the solar tracking it displays every dayy during most of its growth period.. Look up Chaos Theory!. He's okayn't. But who would admit to observing the cat?. >why did people downvote?

Presumably because elementary particles don't have a "spherical shape", there is no such thing as a "duality-state", and "slow it down to see beyond the spherical shape" is undefined.. I didn't use a matplotlib colormap. We made our own implementation of the coloring function, so we can represent the amplitude of the wavefunction using the opacity and the phase with an HSV map.. The time evolution of the wavefunction of the particle therefore its probability density distribution is determinist. This is what the simulation shows.

Either way, you can also simulate the non-deterministic part of collapsing of the wavefunction just by using a random number generator.. Yes. I didn't model it here. Eventually, it will fall in a spiral to the center, to its ground state because of radiation reaction.. About 1% speed of light. * OOP style is only for the API, in order to make your simulation easier to set up. The numerical methods aren't implemented with OOP style and call well-optimized compiled functions.
* Atomic Hartree units are used by default as said at the end of the Github Readme. But you can specify the parameters of the simulation in SI units if you have your data expressed on them. Actually, `m_e, Å` you can import, work as conversion factors to atomic units.. As a computer scientist and not a physicist, I can tell you that OOP does not impact performance, generally speaking. You can still write performant code. It's just that OOP is most interesting when you have a lot of structured data and want to associate behaviour with those structures. But computing physics boils down to a lot of do x then y etc. so OOP is not the most elegant way to code most algorithms. But the performance aspect is orthogonal to that.. OOP can slow down a codebase if used poorly, or in the wrong places. For a simulation like this, whose main workload is primarily chugging through a bunch of numerical calculations with a single function, it doesn't matter much. For something like a game, it can matter much more.

The primary reason why OOP may cause performance issues is because the address of a polymorphic function's code must be figured at runtime, so there are opportunities for both data and instruction cache misses while the correct function address is fetched. This is only relevant if you're calling your virtual functions in a very tight, performance-critical loop, and if the address is changing (since once it's been fetched once, it will likely remain in the cache for fast access for a while).

This is a negligible issue in 99% of cases though, so you shouldn't go avoiding OOP just because you're worried about a future performance problem. Indeed, you should *never* optimize for performance this way unless you've either a) identified a *specific* performance bottleneck, or b) have encountered this exact situation before and can tell a priori that it will cause a performance bottleneck (e.g. large runtime complexities). For a language like python where the language itself is extremely slow, it's a complete non-issue. Worrying about performance before you've identified a performance issue is called "premature optimization" and is a huge waste of time, since performance bottlenecks are often in the last places you'd expect.

The main reasons to avoid OOP are architectural ones; abuse of inheritance can lead to terrible program structures in many cases, but unless you're interested in spending a lot of time practicing and reading other programming paradigms, there's nothing wrong with sticking with what you know unless you're working on a project that's likely to be used and extended by many other people.. The biggest performance impact related to using python is not about the choice of programming paradigm but rather the fact that algorithms coded using the compiled primitives typically available in python (numpy, scipy, etc) tend to have suboptimal cache behavior. This is kind of unavoidable because the only way to get decent performance in an interpreted language is to hide the overhead by making sure each call to a primitive has enough work to do, which usually means going through the whole data a bunch of times even to compute something simple like a gradient.. Very good question, in fact, I was waiting for someone to ask about it.

It's because the eigenstates are highly degenerate and therefore the square-shaped eigenstates are just one of all possible basis. The simulation is made on a square grid so it seems that it's the basis the solver converges in the first place. But, in free space, for example, you can rotate all eigenstates by an arbitrary angle and it will be continuing to be a possible orthonormal basis for the Hilbert space.

Furthermore, the eigenstates (called [Landau levels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Landau_quantization) if you want to search information about) have an analytical solution and it can be shown that they have infinitely degeneracy, just like the energy eigenstates of a free particle, which are just plane waves with freedom of choose the direction of its momentum.. Thank you as well. `Hamiltonian.solve` method outputs the energies of your system.  If you are dealing with electrons, you can use this output array to evaluate the [Fermi–Dirac distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi%E2%80%93Dirac_statistics) and therefore studying its dependence on temperature.. Neutron stars have already magnetic fields of the order of 10\^10 Teslas. 

Also, it seems as well a thousand teslas have been already reached on lab: [https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5044557](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/1.5044557)

But as I said in the top comment the effect presented in the animation isn't exclusive of that strong magnetic fields.  In fact, the effect is present on magnetic fields of strength order. I just have chosen such a strong field to visualize the simulation adequately.. The recent research on producing matter from light reached billions of Teslas (dynamically, locally and after accounting for the Lorentz transformation). It's indeed the next method we seek to implement. See my last comment on the discord server of the repo: [https://discord.gg/xVgFfe7jQ9](https://discord.gg/xVgFfe7jQ9). For deriving the [resulting Hamiltonian](https://imgur.com/a/NBi3HFl) I used Coulomb gauge. Do you have the original coding, worked out math or a video on how this was made? Often the general physics is easy to find online, but the details of it often elude me. Looks fascinating and I would like to understand it more. Electron go in a defined direction at location [UNDEFINED] or electron go in an [UNDEFINED] direction at a defined location. What a great response.  Honestly that last paragraph was the bit that threw me for a loop for a while.  I did some very basic undergrad work visualizing the precursor to this, the particle in an infinite well.  Why is this system not precisely analogous to the physical one?  While I say this, let me reiterate that I do (maybe half-assed, it’s been a while) understand a lot of the reasons it is not precisely analogous, fermi exclusion principle, etc… But my (probably misguided) intuition is that in theory in any real system the particles in motion in a system _should_ be losing energy to the rest of the system, probably through, just to mention the silliest one, tidal forces.  Everything in the system has mass, so at some incomprehensibly small scale, those electrons are trading angular momentum with the rest of the system, right?  Or am I completely wrong?  I know spin isn’t precisely analogous to angular momentum, so that’s not it, but in theory the moon slows down and spins out due to tidal forces, do electrons in an ‘orbit’ experience the same effect?  Why not (I’m assuming I have to be wrong here, mostly because it’s not an orbit but a probability function)?  Tidal precessional effects don’t exist at this level, but why exactly is that?  Is it because it’s not a regular elliptical orbit, because that seems very hand-wavy to me.  Theoretically even if the ‘orbit’ is just an expectation, the electron is actually occupying some space at some time, with some regularity as time trends to infinity, and that occupation of space and time follows some pattern based on the electron energy, so why does this not lead to a ‘tidal’ (not necessarily gravitational) force on the electron as time goes to infinity?  Am I just being an idiot by trying to equate point particles with massive bodies?  If so, help me understand how please.. [removed]. Oh ok that makes sense. So your coloring function maps a complex number to a color and opacity? I assumed you were plotting phase angle and amplitude separately. Thanks!. Neat. I would love to see that if you ever simulate it.. Thank you. Python OOP unlike the OOP implementation of a compiled language may impact a little the performance compared to a pure procedural implementation due to all the calling overhead. 

But generally, as you said the effect is extremely very small to be taken into account unless you have really dumb nested calls.

Especially in this module, the entire bottleneck is in the numerical method implementation and the performance cost OOP to set up the simulation is completely irrelevant.. Yeah, that is my blind spot. Not having much idea of the rigorous elements of this Computer Science stuff, I have been a bit tormented when writing code for Physics simulation. Never sure whether it is also part of my research to optimise it for performance too. Thankfully, that's not the primary task in Physics.

I am learning to not think too much about it, and using pre-built modules is one way to get there. Rest I try to be as "Pythonic"/modular as possible: use numpy/scipy operations and avoid `for` loops as much (hard to get rid of sometimes in solving PDEs). Besides numpy/scipy, hopefully whoever writes these independent project modules gave a damn about optimisation lol.. [deleted]. Awesome!

One last question,

If I have a known crystal structure, with known locations of electrons, am I able to back out permittivity and permeability if sending a planewave through the electrons with a known frequency?. Interesting, thanks!

And to be clear, it wasn't criticism, just curiosity :). As mentioned in another comment, here's the [link to the source code]( https://github.com/quantum-visualizations/qmsolve). For the split-step method I found [this resource](https://www.algorithm-archive.org/contents/split-operator_method/split-operator_method.html) very helpful. For the Crank-Nicholson method I don't have any free resources to share, except for the wikipedia article. There is another method [from this article](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/pdf/10.1063/1.168415) which is easier to implement than split-step or Crank-Nicholson since it doesn't require taking Fourier transforms or solving a system of equations. You may however find the stability conditions to be too limiting when it comes to performance, at least when compared to the other methods.

The Dirac equation can be implemented as well using the split-step method, for example in this article:
[https://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3911](https://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3911). It can be done as well with Crank-Nicholson, but I haven't tried it.. Directions unclear. [UNDEFINED] stuck in [UNDEFINED]. 1- Fundamental particles are point like with no dimension. If an electron was spherical, it’s surface would spin faster than light

2-you can only use wave or particle description for a problem, not both simultaneously 

3-this makes 0 sense. >So your coloring function maps a complex number to a color and opacity?

Exactly!. It's a thing I would like to do in the future! :). At that point it's just about Python being interpreted (can be alleviated by using PyPy for example) and not statically typed (can't really be fixed). OOP is just fancy syntax.. Usually it would be important for your research to be optimized in terms of computational complexity, not so much whether your implementation is any good. Check out an algorithms and data structures course and try to keep complexity down (check big o notation). Not necessarily, there are a bunch of factors that go into this. In the scenario you describe, in interpreted Python, it might result in slight memory overhead. But you can actually compensate that by "turning off" some features of Python classes (__slots__ comes to mind). In general, for non-statically typed, interpreted languages you would always expect a few bytes overhead for *any* type, since it needs to store the type information. So, the int variable would actually be a pointer to an integer and a pointer to a type that declares it an integer, bundled into one. At least. And then on every access the interpreter has to cross-check type information, and every associated function has to be pulled from that type's vtable.. I didn't interpret it as criticism 🙂. Actually, I am glad these kinds of questions because they further expand my curiosity as well.. You rule! Thx. [removed]. What is meant by regions that have an amplitude gradient but no phase coloring? 

For example, the center is black but the edges of the figure are kind of white-grey. Shouldn’t there be some phase coloration in all regions with nonzero amplitude? Or are they just undersampled and average out to white?. Yeah, in Python everything is an object so I agree the term OOP may be misleading, haha.

I'm considering using a pure C++ extension linked with pybind11 to run the Crank-Nicolson method. In fact, I already tested a pure C++ explicit FDTD extension but I didn't see any significant performance boost unless multithreading (I implemented it with std::thread) is used.

However, for implementing Crank-Nicolson I need to find a good way to deal with spare matrices in C++ I have taken a look at the Eigen library, but I still have to research it.. Technically Python is not interpreted directly. It is first compiled to bytecode, and then that is run in a virtual machine written in C. At least, that's how CPython works.. The user who answered you is the other developer QMsolve module.

About a gentle discussion of the Crank-Nicholson method you may find these slides useful: [https://imsc.uni-graz.at/haasegu/Lectures/HPC-II/SS17/presentation1\_Schroedinger-Equation\_HPC2-seminar.pdf](https://imsc.uni-graz.at/haasegu/Lectures/HPC-II/SS17/presentation1_Schroedinger-Equation_HPC2-seminar.pdf). It’s in a cyclotron….it spreads out because that’s how the time component of the wavefunction affects the distribution of the wave…the wave function has nothing to do with the physicality of the particle…it collapses into a single spot when measured only, before you consider it a wave, not a particle, not both…
Do you know anything about quantum mechanics?. I colored with the gray gradient the diamagnetic term of the magnetic interaction. If you look at the [Hamiltonian](https://imgur.com/a/NBi3HFl), this is the last term.

For the other examples in the repository, the gray gradient just shows the intensity of the interaction potential.. Sparse matrices are very common in comp sci, I'm sure you'll find something. Regarding the performance it's not too surprising since all the heavy lifting in numpy/scipy/whatever is insanely optimized already and running native compiled code. Python is just acting as a glue and it's okay if you lose a bit of speed there. It's probably worth the additional maintainability and accessibility if you are looking for contributors.. No not much honestly. I started reading about it a week ago. Ah so there is more than just the wavefunction being plotted. Got it. 

I regularly need to plot optical wavefronts and this is a slick way to represent amplitude and phase together. I learned something from this. Appreciate it.. https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/sparse.html. Ok that explains Renowned Mathematician And Physicist Freeman Dyson Has Died At Age 96. nan. Died from falling, while going into the office at 96.  For a physicist I guess this is dying with your boots on.. When I was taking QMech in my first year of grad school, nearly every concept we covered was developed by someone who was already dead, and who had usually died before I was even born. Except for Dyson. Concepts bearing his name were covered in that first-year QMech and he was very much alive. His contributions were that fundamental.

Rest in the stars, Mr. Dyson.

EDIT: Updated his official title, as he held no doctorate and was critical of that degree system.. I once mailed Dr. Dyson in a moment of fanboy madness, and he replied with the following. Truly a great man.  [https://nick-black.com/images/freemandysoncherrypie.png](https://nick-black.com/images/freemandysoncherrypie.png)

&#x200B;

"Dear sosodank, thankyou for this splendid boost to my ego.

It arrived just when I needed it, after I smashed one of my wife's favorite

cherry pies.  We all have our ups and downs.  Yours sincerely, Freeman Dyson.". Now whenever I have to expand the Dyson series I have two reasons to cry.. There is only one way to properly honour him and it's to build a Dyson sphere.

Someone start a GoFundMe campaign.. He was so brilliant that he never did PhD and went directly to doing research and working with Feynman. I met Mr. Dyson when I was in graduate school - he came to give a talk about something generic (revolutions in science, I think). But what I remember most was when he met with just the graduate students after the talk. In that hour, and just RAILED against the PhD system, saying that it was "good for making PhDs and PhD advisors, and not much more." He never earned a doctorate himself, but that never stopped him from pursuing science. He called it "nothing more than a hazing ritual for scientists, and one in which I'm glad I have never took part." He mentioned - with pride - that none of his kids had PhDs either, something everyone else was horrified by but I found really funny.

As someone in a terminal Masters program at the time, and someone who felt looked down on by those PhD candidates in the room - I think of him and our conversation often. He was a good man, and he'll be missed.. It's interesting to go to Google scholar and look at the breadth of topics Dyson contributed to. QFT, particle physics, statistical mechanics, random matrix theory, astronomy, adaptive optics, weapon policy, and so on. Such an amazing run.. He was really healthy for a 90 year old if you look back at his interviews. How many progenitors of QFT are there left? Huge loss. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrochicken. [If you have ~~a couple~~ 7 hours to spare](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN)

(Wow I thought it was only a couple hours, but according to a playlist length calculator it's actually 7 hours).. Sad.. He’s been in the news over the past few years regarding the Alien Megastructure. Now they think it’s space dust but I’m still liking the Dyson sphere theory. 

God Bless Freeman Dyson! May we one day truly harness the power of the stars!

[Space.com Dyson Sphere/Megastructure](https://www.space.com/alien-megastructure-mysteriously-dimming-stars.html). Just got out of a qm lecture involving Dyson series :(. Damn that's sad. Watched a lot of his interviews only a few days ago, for the first time in ages. He was truly an interesting person.. What a tremendous loss, very sad to hear. 

Freeman Dyson has a great web of stories series freely available on Youtube, that I would recommend anyone to watch: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rs1jGsn61p8&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rs1jGsn61p8&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN). A lot of the old band of physicists/mathematicians are passing, Gell-mann, Atiyah, Dyson. Hope Roger Penrose doesn't kick the bucket soon.. Is this the "Dyson Sphere" Dyson?. [removed]. RIP. Dude.. I could really really really use a terrible person dying instead of a smart useful one, again.. First we lost Katherine Johnson and now Freeman Dyson? We're losing a lot of legends these days :(
But their legacies will live on. Learned about the Dyson series in class just today, such a bizzare coincidence. RIP my dude, I found many of your interviews and books fascinating.  One of the greats.. Wait, Freeman? Did they name Gordon after this dude?. F. RIP. Damn, just damn.. RIP to a legend.. Very sad. Great man who worked with the greatests physicists of recent times😢 But let's be honest it was going to happen sooner or later. One of my favorite mathematicians of our time. This is a sad day.. My quantum mechanics class covered the Dyson Series just today. Sad to see him go, RIP. What a great loss and an inspiration to all. Now he will be catch up with Einstein ..... So ends a legend. We salute you, Mr.Dyson. Was wondering not that long ago if he was still alive. Surprised to find he was. Oh well, good going, Mr. D.. Damn, great guy. Rest in peace. Not a single mention here about how Dyson tarnished his legacy by disbelieving that Climate Change was real.. Here come all the posts and comments about Dyson spheres..... I went to a lecture of his recently. A renegade up till the end. Much respect. Funny how the Dyson Sphere thing came about as a misunderstanding though.. Rest in Peace sweet Prince. I'm just going to take this moment to say. The Orion Project and the Dyson sphere were both brilliant and in my opinion,  utterly undervalued concepts. You will not be forgotten, Dr. Dyson.. Have there been any descriptions of the Dyson Sphere that address the instability of the star-and-shell system? If the core of the sphere were perturbed, it would be closer to one side and pull harder, until it fell apart. Did Dyson or anyone address this?

I mean this with utmost respect to the man. It's a question I've had for a long time and now seems a good time to ask.. RIP. I always loved the concept of a Dyson Sphere.. First time I heard this guy's last name was on Star Trek TNG.  Was stoked to hear he was still alive in this lifetime at the IAS in Princeton, N.J from a book his son wrote in 2012.  Hope he gets to RIP.. Well I'm glad now that I got to see a lecture by him at Canterbury University (New Zealand) some years ago, it was quite memorable as some nutter asked him if god would have a nose and he replied, that's not a physics question if you had asked me a physics question like, then he asked himself a physics question then he answered it, was very amusing.. In a parallel universe (where the nations of the world did not pass the Partial Test Ban Treaty and where radiation hormesis was true and widely accepted) [Freeman Dyson would have been among the first to visit Saturn and he would have done it back in the 70's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Orion_\(nuclear_propulsion\)).

I'm so sad that this legend has died.. Thank you for making QM even more interesting than it was. 
Have a cuppa with Dirac when you meet home Dr. Dyson. You shall be sorely missed.. Reverse nice...litterally...its sad. A brilliant man! His candor I will miss along with his brilliance.. Rest in peace to one of the most brilliant, beautiful, and underrated minds that have ever lived. ):

His paper on the far future (Time without End) jump-started my obsession with astrophysics and cosmology, and his autobiography (Disturbing the Universe) is one of the most interesting, thought-provoking, and just beautiful books that I have ever read. He had the amazing ability to be a mathematical and scientific genius, while simultaneously retaining the unlimited creativity and appreciation for beauty that most people lose halfway through their childhood. I think I will buy and read another one of his books now.. [removed]. [Lubos's obituary](https://motls.blogspot.com/2020/02/freeman-dyson-1923-2020.html). But his vacuum cleaners live on. Wait, was that him?. Late comment here. I totally missed this. Why didn't I notice?. Gravity expert dies of gravity poisoning.

:(. It's better than living your life in some sort of round, spherical bubble.. His Wikipedia page says he died of AIDS.  Probably someone's sick joke.. [deleted]. > QMech in my first year of grad school,

Ok ...must be a quirk of that educational system that 2nd year undergrad physics is covered so late.. Just fyi, not doctor. He never got a PhD. I would like to point out that people using the word "splendid" have to be great. Thank you for sharing.. That's splendid. Too bad you didn't ask him what he thought of pedantic mfs who go around needlessly correcting internet comments.. F. :'(. r/Stellaris. GoFundMe goal: $999,000,000,000,000,000,000. Are they the ones in the Hoovers and wheel barrows?. I think a Dyson Swarm would be the more economical way to go.. > There is only one way to properly honour him and it's to build a Dyson sphere.

No, then Scotty's ship will crash land on it.. No, if you read the Three Body Problem trilogy by Liu Cixin, doing that would be suicidal for any civilization inder the Dark Forest hypothesis. Cue crackpots citing him as inspiration for skipping physics education altogether.. [And number theory!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson%27s_transform). [deleted]. Sheldon Glashow, Jeffrey Goldstone, the group who got a Nobel prize for the Higgs mechanism, Yang (from Yang-Mills)?

Not sure if these qualify as "progenitors". Another place Von Neumann left his mark on..... It is an amazing interview in its entirety, and his manner of speaking is somehow very soothing.

The story of how Dyson hooked up with Feynman and figured out how to reunite different approaches to Quantum Electrodynamics, and how some prominent physicists looked down at it at first, is pure gold. (Approximately 15 minutes starting from [here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Rr3ZWt1ULQ&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN&index=70)). [removed]. Nice link, was about to post it myself. Don't jinx it!. The very same. yep. [removed]. Now that you mention it. I can't really remember the last time I heard about someone world famous for being horrible and useless died. RIP Mr Dyson.. Yeah it's a sad week for math lovers. However we can still look to them for inspiration and encouragement as well. I do wonder what this generation will bring to the forefront as far as the physical sciences are concerned.. I'm curious about who the next generation of legend scientists will be.. Yeah man, same. Yup, the character's original name was Dyson Poincaré. See also: Booker DeWitt from Bioshock Infinite was allegedly named after [Bryce DeWitt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bryce_DeWitt).. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeman_(surname). He doubted the most used model at the time and its predictions but didn't doubt the green house effects or global warming in general. At least that's what he said in an interview.. /r/climateskeptics is talking about how they lost a hero. He can be both an inspiration and warning for the science community.. [removed]. He had completely evidenced based views on climate science. [removed]. I think more realistically it would be a swarm of satellites instead of an actual shell.. [removed]. Nope, a different person, and TIL that I am older than Dyson Vacuums. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyson_(company). Lol. Truly a force to be reckoned with.. A joke? I don’t think you’re really grasping the gravity of the situation.. Yeah I think the Earth sucks too.. A Dyson sphere perhaps?. It's so ridiculous that Wikipedia has been forced to have a standing policy of locking down a person's page in the immediate aftermath of their death. Brigades of anon morons love to pounce and make fucky edits. Of course they're corrected rapidly, but man, it still happens like, every time.. It appears you are correct! I had just always assumed that he did.. [deleted]. https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps. You realize that there’s a lot of material worth covering in quantum mechanics right? Most physicists take many quantum mechanics courses throughout their undergrad and graduate career.. It’s a quirk of my particular education path, specifically.

I did my undergrad in chemistry, not physics, and as such I was well behind most of my peers on entering grad school. I did *a lot* of catching up that first quarter!. Indeed, but he was known as Dr. Dyson (to some) as an endearment (source: NYT obit). A rhetorical flourish.. Instructions unclear; accidentally committed mass xenocide.. End date: 10 days. That will get us through stage one.. I didn't say we had to use it, did I?. Weinberg and Gell-Mann were two that came to mind. Yeah, it’s not clear to me either what counts as a founder since qft is still being “defined” to some extent (for example, there isn’t really a standard on the order of material in textbooks or what to cover is professor dependent) 

I would probably consider hallmark figures and work from 20s-60s would be in for sure, and 70s is a probably and by 80s maybe not.. IDK, Dyson became pretty horrible and useless.. That's left for us to figure out.. Dyson did dissent from consensus, and one can question that. But painting Dyson as a dumb Climate Change denier is a gross oversimplification, considering that Dyson was [one of the pioneers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=848X64FXGp0&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN&index=144) of studying Climate Change:

*"in those early years Oak Ridge was really the only place that was worrying about carbon dioxide, and we had a very good group there: Ralph Rotty, who was collecting the information from all over the world about what was actually going on, and Greg Marland who is interested in vegetation in particular. And so my interest has always been in... in finding out what was actually happening in the real world, as opposed to doing computer models."*

In Dyson's [own words](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1v5I70Gt_NQ&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN&index=146): 

*"\[harmful effects of carbon dioxide on ozone layer\] that's* ***going to be a major disaster if we don't do something about it.*** *So that's my primary concern with the carbon dioxide at the moment, but it's not what the public is worrying about.* ***The public thinks that you have to wait until global warming is proved, before you do something -- and of course that's completely ridiculous, because the other effects, which are more easily measurable are already happening anyway.****"*. I think Dyson was absolutely wrong about climate change, but claiming that someone should be ashamed of their ideas is totally ridiculous. Science is based on skepticism: “Blind belief in authority is the greatest enemy of truth.” -Einstein

You should not shame a scientist for being a skeptic, if you disagree with him find the evidence, do the science, and present it--make an argument, convince people.. Not true. [In his interview with Yale Environment 360, Dyson also makes numerous assertions of fact — from his claim that warming today is largely confined to the Arctic to his contention that human activities are not primarily responsible for rising global temperatures — that climate scientists say are flat-out wrong.](https://e360.yale.edu/features/freeman_dyson_takes_on_the_climate_establishment).. Phosphates are important for the flora too - they literally cannot grow without material to build their cell walls. In a greenhouse or a monocultural field, fertilizer w/phosphate gives a huge boost to the growth. But if you pour a sack of fertilizer into a natural pond, you get algae bloom and all the fish die.

A controlled monocrop will benefit from an abundance of CO2 or phosphates because we kill all of its competitors that could get a bigger edge from them. But monocrops are monocrops, real ecosystems are complex and different.

A competitive ecosystem only stays competitive under a certain resource balance. The ecosystems today have evolved to be competitive in 200-300 ppm CO2. The further we go from there, the more disproportionately certain plants are favored over others (similarly to how algae are favored in high phosphate ecosystems).. > it's not necessarily a bad thing

It is this time. Not recognizing climate change as a dangerous mutation to the biosphere *is* climate change denial. [According to wikipedia,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeman_Dyson#Climate_change) he said that climate change distracted us from more immediate concerns. But, the thing is, climate change intersects with absolutely everything, it will make every immediate concern *worse*. You can't combat any pressing issue without addressing climate change.. >Climate changes all the time

[Here are those cycles you might be thinking of](https://climate.nasa.gov/evidence/)

See that big spike right at 1950? And how it's a straight line going up?. Oh okay. Good to know, TIL that he's not that guy. RIP Freeman Dyson.. [deleted]. :( His death weighs heavy on my heart.. Earth agrees, it sucks having a human infection.. Is this a massive gravity joke?. Yes, he's so amazing he got a permanent position without PhD. https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps. Interesting, he had that New England accent that is supposedly almost extinct.. Quantum mechanics is the first of these (including time dependent perturbation theory, interaction picture, dyson series etc.)) and is usually around 4th semester, not in grad school. Before you take quantum statistical mechanics, before you do quantum many particle system, before you do (quantum theory based) condensed matter physics, quantum optics and whatever else (which are all still undergraduate where I am). They say it was their first too. It just sounds like American university education once again being several years delayed. Not the first instance of this, so I'm not really surprised, as I hear GR not being covered in undergrad, undergrads usually covering stuff that is taught in school elsewhere, high schools not covering calculus etc.. Oh, I see, that makes sense. Didn't really seem feasible to me to have a physics undergrad degree without QM, given how condensed matter physics, optics and a ton of stuff requires that you've been introduced to quantum mechanics prior.. Instructions unclear; Dick stuck in ringworld.... Xenocide is my new favourite word.. The aliens have federated!. Anything is possible with time travel.. Stage one is learning how to mine moons, asteroids and the like, because there is a decent chance it would take more than the total material in the solar system.

At the very least we're going to have to break Mercury down completely, venus too, most local asteroids and by this point, if using a swarm instead of a continuous sphere (which is much, much harder for little gain) you have enough power generation to begin breaking down the outer planets and moons where material is present.. But you still want it built, correct? Merely constructing it will still have the same suicidal effect. its gonna let other civillizations know of our capabilities and will cause them to immediately wipe us out. [I have some bad news for you then.](https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.nytimes.com/2019/05/24/obituaries/murray-gell-mann-died-.amp.html%3f0p19G=7900). I meant  someone famous for their douchebaggery, like Hitler, or Bernie Madoff. Not just old.

....And remember you said that when you are old and broken and noone loves you.. >But painting Dyson as a dumb Climate Change denier is a gross oversimplification

Well, it's true that Dyson's dissent was more nuanced than most, but he was apparently quite satisfied to have his views associated with (and utilized by) outright climate change denying organizations like the Heartland Institute.

>In Dyson's [own words](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1v5I70Gt_NQ&list=PLVV0r6CmEsFzDA6mtmKQEgWfcIu49J4nN&index=146):

>"[harmful effects of carbon dioxide on ozone layer] that's going to be a major disaster if we don't do something about it. So that's my primary concern with the carbon dioxide at the moment, but it's not what the public is worrying about. The public thinks that you have to wait until global warming is proved, before you do something -- and of course that's completely ridiculous, because the other effects, which are more easily measurable are already happening anyway."

In that comment, he indicates that CO2's warming effect is not proved, but suggests there are other (supposedly better-founded) reasons to be concerned about increased CO2, such as its potential effect of increasing ozone layer depletion at the poles. Ironically however, that effect is not nearly as well established as the warming from CO2 as a greenhouse gas. In fact, evidence indicates that the net effect of increased CO2 has [sped up the recovery from the ozone layer depletion at the poles](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1029/2001JD000824), rather than causing further depletion.. The problem with Dyson is that Climate Change is an existential threat, and his solutions to excessive CO2 [bordered on the crackpot](https://deepclimate.org/2009/06/16/freeman-dysons-shadowy-canadian-connection/). The models he disbelieved have proved to be conservative and underestimate the magnitude of the problem, and demonstrate his extremely shaky grasp of climate science.

I think Hanson said it best: "You might guess (correctly) that I was referring to the fact that contrarians are not the real problem – it is the vested interests who take advantage of the existence of contrarians.". But that's the thing. The evidence for the consequences of climate change are already there. The arguments based in skepticism have already taken place. The science and predictions of climate change stand strong in the face of all objection. Flat Earthers certainly are skeptical and disagree with the evidence, seek to find their own, and make their own conclusions, yet I think it's clear that they are anti-scientific. Skepticism is neither a positive nor negative attribute, and at some point it becomes unwelcome and harmful (eg: anti-vax people). Ataraxia isn't all it's cracked up to be.

The takeaway that we can learn from Dyson is to not fall into cults of personality within science. To warn against the sanctification of individual scientists. This can serve to blind our reasoning and perspective. Yes, Dyson made great contributions to physics, sparked many people's imaginations with his creative ideas, and served as an inspiration to multiple generations of scientists and this is an immensely great thing for a single person to do. But he also discredited the work of many other scientists, from fields he is not an expert in, by downplaying their tried-and-tested scientific claims. We can, and should, both venerate his contributions and be critical of the things that deserve criticism.. I don't know if you're a US person, but this view is one of the biggest problems with the US right now. The belief that everyone's ideas are equally valid, no matter how little investigation they're based on, no matter how questionable the theoretical or empirical grounding. That's how we get large groups of people believing absolute claptrap.

The essence of science may be skepticism, but skepticism based on a lack of inquiry -- and then publicly crowing about it -- **that's harmful**.

One of the smartest people to have ever lived absolutely **should** be ashamed about being duped into using his public statute to validate a false narrative.. Those are differing opinions. Not facts. People are allowed to have different opinions.. [removed]. Blasted, foiled by gravity. -Farnsworth. Falling down is rarely silent. These earth jokes are falling flat. I think he originally went to Cornell to be a grad student under Hans Bethe, but Bethe was so impressed with him that he hired Dyson as a staff member.. I think it actually wasn't super uncommon back then, the academic job market was simply really great in the US in that era. For example, my great-grandfather was recruited and hired as a professor in 1944 with only an MA (he was an electrical engineer, though his research was really what we would call "Computer Science"). It might change a lot in going from an engineering field to physics/math though.

A really funny story is Lars Onsager. Yale hired him without realizing he didn't have a PhD, but their guidelines required professors to have one. No problem - they just asked Onsager to write something up to submit as his thesis to either the chemistry or physics department (I think he was associated with both). The thesis he submitted was too difficult mathematically for anyone in the physics department to understand, so they had to send it to the math department (who said it was easily worthy of a math PhD).. I guess when you revolutionize several branches of physics they let you do that.

¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯. He could literally bind his first few papers together with tape and submit that as a thesis if he wanted to. Guess there was no need to bother. tl;dw he could only focus on a problem for a year or so tops, but ph.d research takes 2-3 years and he felt at odds with that.. He was originally from England and thus had an actual transatlantic accent, which might be what you're thinking of.. We had qmech, but it was a single quarter for chemistry majors. Pretty much all time-independent solutions to toy problems. Good for some basic intuition, but not close to what a physics major would get.

I started out as a bio major, but was grabbed by chemistry and loved pchem. Worked as an analytical chemist for a university’s bio department for a few years between undergrad and grad school, where I ended up doing mostly classical electrodynamics work elucidating nanoparticles optics. Now I write code as an engineer for a big tech company, though I have no formal education in computer science or coding. I’ve had a weird education and work path here. It’s given me a very broad base of knowledge, although it has also left me with some glaring holes in some of the fields I’m ostensibly an expert in (physics and coding, in particular).. You'll do well in the Imperium, Guardsman.. Good idea! I'm announcing a fundraiser dinner in two weeks ago.. ah fuck. I could have sworn I looked at his page recently and he was still alive. Weinberg is still kicking it at age 86. From his username, I'd guess he's referring to the fact that Freeman was a climate change denier, not just that he was old.. Like I said I don’t agree with Dyson but just because the situation is serious doesn’t mean that you should say his opinions are shameful. I think he honestly believed what he said and he did research to the best of his ability and knowledge. If he came up with something different, then people should, and have made valid scientific counter arguments. One of the most important aspect of science is that skepticism is treated as an inherent good, necessary for science. Not as something to be stamped out.. [removed]. I am certainly in favor of criticism of Dyson’s opinion on climate change. I find the word shameful to be objectionable. Science relies on skepticism, sometimes it has negative consequences, like anti-vax, that is something we need to deal with but it is important to avoid shaming people for their honest beliefs. I think Dyson honestly believed what he said. You can shame Andrew Wakefield all you want though because he purposefully mislead people about vaccines and fudged his “science”. Again, not true. Here's a [report on global temperatures in the year of the interview](https://climate.nasa.gov/news/249/2009-second-warmest-year-on-record-end-of-warmest-decade/). While clearly the north pole is warming, huge areas of the rest of the globe showed pronounced warming trends. Dyson discounted that, and time has shown those trends are real.

Dyson was just another old man that knew he would never experience the negatives of climate change. This combined with his Dunning-Kruger colored view of his competence in climate science accounts for his skepticism, and thus facilitated the fossil fuel cartel behind climate denialism. He did us no favors towards the end of his life.. [removed]. A trillion trees (about the physical maximum worldwide without major land use changes) neutralizes about 10 years of human emissions. The major land use changes, required for more trees than that, would mostly entail cutting animal agriculture and turning grassland into forest.. I think they are quite *#*. That's actually acceptable practice at a few universities. I've seen a couple of theses on the arXiv that are of that form.. Oic thanks. but did you actually have it?. No question, but Dyson trafficked on his fame in physics to weigh into an arena in which he had a low aptitude and stubbornly refused to listen to reason. He was not behaving as a reputable scientist would, and why is a mystery to those around him.. He was irresponsible and did not take a scientific attitude towards other scientists' research. Skepticism is fine, willful contrarianism on this particular subject, coming from a fellow scientist going against a bulletproof research consensus, is counter-productive at the very least, and some very dangerous people have been able to use Dyson as support for insanely destructive policies. This is what we mean by scientific responsibility.

He will be remembered as a denialist. Not because his positions were extreme, but because extremists used his "skepticism" to justify their anti-scientific positions.. I purposefully avoided "shaming" him. There's not much benefit to shaming a person in this case; kinda the opposite of sanctification. But it is a shame that he fell into the trap of unwelcome skepticism that was produced by oiled interests, which is a different kind of shame. More melancholy.. I don’t agree. I respect him for trying to bring rationality to the issue of climate science. Researchers found that accelerometer data from smartphones can reveal people's location, passwords, body features, age, gender, level of intoxication, driving style, and be used to reconstruct words spoken next to the device.. nan. **Source:** [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076)

**authors summarizing study results:** https://twitter.com/JL\_Kroger/status/1420681035617116163. Where can we see the whole paper?. Reminds me of a passage from the book "[The Cryptonomicon](https://lost-contact.mit.edu/afs/adrake.org/usr/rkh/Books/books/Neal%20Stephenson%20-%20Cryptonomicon%20v2%20(HTML,%20Fully%20Proofed)/slide14.html)" It's simply astounding what information can be pulled from seemingly innocuous noisy signals.

\*edit a link to a chapter from the book if the above doesn't work: [https://lost-contact.mit.edu/afs/adrake.org/usr/rkh/Books/books/Neal%20Stephenson%20-%20Cryptonomicon%20v2%20(HTML,%20Fully%20Proofed)/slide14.html](https://lost-contact.mit.edu/afs/adrake.org/usr/rkh/Books/books/Neal%20Stephenson%20-%20Cryptonomicon%20v2%20(HTML,%20Fully%20Proofed)/slide14.html). Odds on any action actually being taken *before* something bad happens is probably practically zero, unless the issue gets some major publicity.. Firstly, this is great work from the researchers and the technological advancements here are incredible. The research behind this is sound and honest and the researchers have held themselves to high moral standards, this comment is not about them. It’s about the inevitable applications of this technology. 

The general rule for these things is “if it’s technically possible and can be used to harvest data, tech companies will use it to harvest data.” 

The worrying thing is that there is absolutely no way that tech companies are not either developing a way to do this on a large scale or already have found a way to do this and are currently doing it. And the moral aspect of going this far to harvest data really doesn’t play a role here, hell Facebook is [using the dust on your camera lens](http://privacyinternational.org/examples/1944/facebook-patents-tracking-method-using-dust-camera-lenses) to track people they really don’t care about any moral obligation they may or may not have. 

I think some solid no-bullshit laws to protect privacy more comprehensively are well overdue. I can’t believe I’m saying this but Apple’s approach with this is a good start. Setting those transparency obligations in law and giving the user the control over their data would probably put an end to these kinds of things. This wouldn’t mean no ads anymore or thousands of companies going down, it would just mean that people can choose whether they want their data harvested.. Not surprising since we’ve been using lasers to reconstruct speech from ambient vibrations on surfaces since the 70s.

It is good to know the depth of an attack vectors and vulnerability potential of modern devices.. Time to invent a phone case with harmonic dampening?. I, for one, unconditionally trust corporations and state actors to be responsible stewards of such information.. **Tech Enthusiast**: "I can control every lights, lock, and camera in my house all from my smart-watch! How cool am I?"

**Tech Expert**: "The most recent piece of technology in my house is a Nokia printer from 2006 and I keep a loaded glock next to it at all times in case it makes a noise I don't recognise.". Honestly What the actual fuck?. I guess I always knew this was possible from a physics perspective, is their anyway to know if these tech people have developed algorithms to track these things and if they are actively tracking and storing this data? If they are I'm very scared. This is a crazy amount of info you can get from one thing! I could be wrong, but if you can get passwords from it, then you can probably also get entire text being written, right? So someone could figure out what you’ve been typing into google from this?

With respect to passwords, the solution might be to jumble up the keyboard completely randomly whenever you need to enter one. But people aren’t going to tolerate that for every single thing they wanna type, so you’d still be vulnerable to having all of your texts/searches harvested.. [deleted]. I'm a pretty paranoid nerd, and the more I further my career in IT the more scared I become, but this just made me shit myself.. And people afraid of being chipped by vaccination, smh. Not if I’m always drunk!. I find this hard to believe on the face of it, given that I've yet to encounter a device that has managed to keep an accurate step count.

In practical situations, I think it would be very difficult to do many of these things accurately. I would think a lot of the data would look very different if a device might be in a front pocket, back pocket, purse, messenger bag, or backpack, as just one example.. "Level of intoxication" concerns me. Some things are meant to be private.. The thing is why not tell people that this is what you intended to do with smart phones, why sneak this kind of thing into peoples lives without letting them know. The argument that agreeing to terms of service is letting us know is such bullshit, there should be law that makes it illegal to have people blindly agree to this stuff without knowing, and it can't be the burden of the consumer to desipher some 300 page contract just to use a device. Thats the real problem, all of these could be great advancements, but it is being done in the most underhanded, way, it just furthers the argument that these tech companies are not to be trusted, that the people that created this technology are doing so not for the benefit of mankind, but to move forward a hyperreal strange plot to create some kind of dystopian information state. This is a very real existential threat.. Please clarify that a lot of the accelerometer data, especially for measuring the body's parameters, is taken from body-worn accelerometers and not smartphones. But this is quite an interesting paper, shows how much data can be extracted from very few resources.. Ayeee iPhone - I hatchu!. So what are the possible counters to these? Especially because we go through so much effort to protect stuff with passwords and now our phone is against us. I find it immensely fascinating that sound and motion can be used to derive all of this information.. Bro wtf wrong with data scientists they need a hug or something. I'll have to find the article but I also read a German scientist discovered you can see everyone's movements and the details of all structures inside people's homes with WiFi. Very interesting. Always guessed that something like this is happening but did not expect the amount of data sources that can lonely be generated and inferenced by the accelerometer.. Oh boy, I do not like this.. I wish I had an award to give. Great stuff, OP.. So, the phones are always listening! :). Its like everywhere you go you can't be untracked. Is this similiar to how researched were able to "listen" to a conversation by recording video of vibrations in a bag of chips? Just interpolated data with potential accuracy?. I do not believe this is the appropriate subreddit for this post. None of the authors of the paper are physicists (they’re computer scientists), none of the papers cited are physics papers, and biometric identification identification is generically a computer science classification problem. There’s very little physics involved because they do not actually model the dynamics of the human body and relate it to characteristics, because again it’s just identification based on data processing.. Very cool research. 

But the notion that tech companies are going to steal your personal information by looking at accelerometer data is absurd. Data from accelerometers in non ideal scenarios is chock full of noise. Even the best AI filtering algorithm is going to have a hard time making sense of it.. When did accelerometers get so good?  How is it we can get this data out of a cell phone and yet VR headsets get dramatically better tracking using an external reference point e.g. Valve's lighthouses?. They do not detect spoken words. They can detect typed words and recognize when speech is happening (from non-verbal communication).. I knew. Sigh.. I doubt this... but it sounds like a great way to get funding.

When you look at studies like this you will find that they have very small datasets, no controls and testing under extremely limited conditions.. So can it tell if there are more than two genders?. Here we go!. NSA would like a word.... splendid. Corrupt Corporations: Wow…so anyways. Can someone explain is this because the accelerometer has unfettered access to the other devices, or is this some form of inference from the accelerometer data alone.. Regarding passwords ... if you lay the phone flat before typing, will that thwart the accelerometer reads of tap locations?. Holy cow. In what journal is this published in?. Like what? What about the fact that are not precise enough for tracking because often sensible to drifting?. All this but they can’t stop identity theft 🤨. Thanks I Hate Accelerometers. This genuinely had to be researched? This is what tech was made for imo. I thought this was common knowledge. I find it difficult to believe that such a device could have this level of capability without being specifically designed to do so.

Incidentally: It's worth noting that accelerometer data is one of the hardest things to disable on Android. You can disable things like microphone & camera access on apps easily, but the Google Play Store itself will flood you with error notifications if you find & deactivate its access to your accelerometer data.. I mean if you think the device you have on you at all times that has a camera, gps, microphone, constant connection to the internet, pressure sensors, orientation sensors, accelerometers, light meters, proximity sensors, magnetic sensors, a gyroscope, and can take a 3d scan of your face to unlock itself doesn't have the ability to harvest that kind of information then I don't know what rock you have been living under but clearly you have some catching up to do. 

This is the reasons we have such a huge push for privacy, transparency, and app by app permissions, and why it's a good idea to use open source things (like stock Android) instead of close software where God knows why they are doing. This is why there is a push for on-device processing, anti-tracking, and more. Things like if you're smoking, eating, how tall you are, etc, sure. I can see how an accelerometer might aggregate info to acquire that. 

But passwords? How in the hell would an accelerometer acquire my password?. So if I understand correctly, 
Facebook knows when you’re um, polishing the silver?. https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076. Also, don't be afraid to reach out to the author(s) directly. My girlfriend is in academia and she says that the pay wall only benefit the publishers.

Authors have full rights to freely share their work with whoever they want.. All modern "smart" devices have built in backdoors for "agencies" to tap whenever they wish. There is continuous data collection ongoing, and everyone should already expect that nothing they do or say via any of these devices is private. Anything that's popular and says "encrypted" really isn't encrypted to the higher ups that want to tap in.. Fantastic book! And yes, we may safely rest assured that FakeBook and other operators are already doing this kind of stuff.. That's a cool passage. I love it. I'm gonna read this book.. your link is broken.  use [this one](https://lost-contact.mit.edu/afs/adrake.org/usr/rkh/Books/books/Neal%20Stephenson%20-%20Cryptonomicon%20v2%20(HTML,%20Fully%20Proofed\)/slide14.html) instead.. What'a cryptonomicon?. The link is broken on my reddit client: [fixed link](https://lost-contact.mit.edu/afs/adrake.org/usr/rkh/Books/books/Neal%20Stephenson%20-%20Cryptonomicon%20v2%20\(HTML,%20Fully%20Proofed\)/slide14.html). Literally anything from Stephenson is great.  If you have t read his other stuff, go do it now.. Right I really need to stop having my phone on me during sex.. agreed. This is how everything works.. Okay, that link was terrible.  
It's a direct rip off of the gizmodo article, and not even a good copy at that.  

Direct link:  
https://gizmodo.com/facebook-knows-how-to-track-you-using-the-dust-on-your-1821030620  
>One [filed in 2015](http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect2=PTO1&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=/netahtml/PTO/search-bool.html&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&RefSrch=yes&Query=PN/9485423) describes a technique that would connect two people through the camera metadata associated with the photos they uploaded. It might assume two people knew each other if the images they uploaded looked like they were titled in the same series of photos—IMG_4605739.jpg and IMG_4605742, for example—or if lens scratches or dust were detectable in the same spots on the photos, revealing the photos were taken by the same camera.  

Hell even the gizmodo article is trash because only one sentence is relevant and even still, it's a patent and doesn't really tell how well the tech works. I get your point that fb is shit but you gotta give better examples than this.. I fully agree. I mean, I knew data privacy/internet rights needed to be solidified, but this is just another nail in the coffin. Amazing work, but scary to think of its implementation.. Well put and couldn’t agree more. 

I would like to see a constitutional amendment that greatly expands on the 4th Amendment creating an explicit right of privacy and prohibiting all forms of personal data collection. Personally, I think it should become the 0th Amendment.. Honestly I think privacy of the kind we all want is dead, the technology is getting ever more invasive and stealthy. I just don't see how you can enforce those rights when the only evidence is in some 3rd world data center.. Apple is only "protecting" privacy because their venture into advertising largely failed.

The problem with the idea of trying to legislate technology is that even just defining PII is difficult, as the above paper demonstrates.

Is accelerometer data PII? Well, it is now.

What about user timing on data entry?

Privacy falls very much into the same bucket as security more broadly.

Legislation tends to be a mistake as it simply locks down 'good' actors and prevents industry-wide responses.

The FBI argues that there should be legislation enforcing back doors for encryption protocols used. But this just leaves the door open even more for bad actors to walk right in to encrypted communications.

Similarly, I'd much rather see a world where we have technology solutions locking down what information is transmitted/shared.

Can I/O timing be used to identify a user? Perhaps Firefox should MITM I/O calls and put them on a clock cycle without explicit permission granted to bypass that interception - a solution that would block *all* actors from effective identification.

Perhaps accelerometer permissions should, like geolocation permissions, be tiered in granularity, or like the civilian GPS system, inherently adding jitter.

Privacy needs to be a consumer driven product differentiation for a push to be successful.

Legislation that *would* be effective would be an accreditation system like the food safety rating system, where products meeting a certain threshold of users had to certify their product and get a letter score and app stores/search engines needed to display that grade on listings.. The last bastion of true 'privacy' is the thoughts inside your head - and that is not going to last for much longer.

Dream recording: [www.discovermagazine.com](https://www.discovermagazine.com/mind/theoretically-recording-dreams-is-possiblescientists-are-trying)

Decoding Complex Thoughts: [www.cmu.edu](https://www.cmu.edu/dietrich/news/news-stories/2017/june/brain-decoding-complex-thoughts.html)

:|. Wait what?. there's a nice video from veritasium where they use a camera instead, capture a lot of frames of a vibrating foil to resurrect the original sound that made the foil vibrate.. This is why D-cups are best.. RemindMe! 300 days. Thank you citizen. Now if you'll just sign here.... The normies won't ever understand us. We're "Neo-Luddites".. I believe Commander Adama has a thing or two to say about this.. Well, have you forgotten that acceleration of something is literally all you need to reconstruct motion up to inertial frame?

The most unreal part of it is using vibration caused by sound to reconstruct said sound (since presumably it should be lost in all the ambient noise) but i have not yet looked at that paper.. Capitalism. These algorithms are usually developed behind closed doors, unfortunately. So little can be known about actual technical capabilities. But as stated in [the paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076): "it may reasonably be assumed that at least some of the parties who regularly access accelerometer data from consumer devices (e.g. device manufacturers, service providers, app developers) possess larger sets of training data, more technical expertise and more financial resources than the researchers cited in this paper.". If it is known to the public you better believe it was known to governments well in advance.. Or just disable the accelerometer during password entry.  Biometrics like face scanning are also great for this.. If you use a password manager and enable biometrics you would at least avoid the need to type in some passwords. Hey Bill! These two phones are moving rhythmically together! Let’s send them an ad for condoms.    
*Hold up Jimmy, did you cross-reference the location data? Last time you sent ads for life jackets they because you thought they were white-water rafting, but it turned out they were riding an elephant on safari.*. They already know that you're always drunk, using sober people as a baseline for comparison ;). Of course there are considerable detection errors (as also stated in the paper, see 'Discussion and Implications' section). However, for many types of attacks and profiling purposes, 100% accuracy is not needed. Many ad targeting and credit scoring techniques are highly *in*accurate at the moment, and are widely used nonetheless. In fact, algorithmic inaccuracy can become a huge problem in itself by causing discriminatory side-effects.

Your second point is very interesting. But I believe that advanced algorithms could detect (with a certain degree of accuracy, of course) whether the phone is being carried in a front pocket, back pocket or backpack, etc. (and could suspend the analysis unless the phone is being carried in a specific revealing position).. I definitely think you're right, the technology isn't fully there, much of the cited sources seemed to be more proof of concepts then full implementations. 

Granted, I think the point of the paper isn't to say "oh phone are doing xyz" is that "phone could be doing xyz". 

I think either way, treating an IMU like a camera, microphone, or GPS is pretty reasonable and should be easy to implement since the infrastructure is already there. 

(But low-key the paper does give off a little bit of fear tactic vibes to it, but it's personal security so I get the vibe). Supposedly the new apple watch will have BAC measuring built in. Part of it is actually taken from body-worn smartphones because well, you can't really tell what someone's hip movement is by using a wrist watch. It's just that conditions on that study were far more severe than normal smartphone usage.. I guess what we need are:

1. methods to reliably turn off sensors (e.g., hardware switches)
2. more transparency for users, e.g., sensor activity logs, user permission requests for accelerometers (as is already the case for GPS, microphone, camera, etc.)
3. better regulatory oversight over the (mis)use of inferred personal information. So true. Can you link the paper. What do you mean "just"?. It's about reconstructing accelerometer data to get information like speech.. These inference methods are not perfect. They have considerable detection errors, just like Valve's lighthouse (and as also stated in [the paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076), see 'Discussion and Implications' section). However, for many types of attacks and profiling purposes, 100% accuracy is not needed. Many ad targeting and credit scoring techniques are highly *in*accurate at the moment, and are widely used nonetheless. In fact, algorithmic inaccuracy can become a huge problem in itself by causing discriminatory side-effects.. >algorithm 

algorithm? like in singular? bro, they have so many algorithms.. These inference methods are not perfect. They have considerable detection errors, just like Valve's lighthouse (and as also stated in [the paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076), see 'Discussion and Implications' section). However, for many types of attacks and profiling purposes, 100% accuracy is not needed. Many ad targeting and credit scoring techniques are highly *in*accurate at the moment, and are widely used nonetheless. In fact, algorithmic inaccuracy can become a huge problem in itself by causing discriminatory side-effects.. Accelerometers are about motion, not position; they're good for telling what you're doing at this exact moment, but not so much to figure out where you are in a room.


But still, it's no wonder Facebook is throwing so much money at becoming a VR monopoly, the more data they can get from you, the more they can figure out about you.. Nope, there is actually research showing that speech can be reconstructed based on sound vibrations captured by motion sensors.. This.

If anyone has ever actually worked with accelerometers, you will realize that the things they are claiming to be able to do are very difficult. Most smart phone IMU's are poorly calibrated and or biased in multiple directions. 

There are more effective ways to spy on someone than using accelerometers.. More importantly, are there more than 2 genders of accelerometers?. Don't let google know this. [deleted]. They can solve it, and far more.... they never will though because they need the boogieman to validate their existence.. >But passwords? How in the hell would an accelerometer acquire my password?

I didn't get that either. But the authors have explained it all quite well in [this twitter thread](https://twitter.com/JL_Kroger/status/1420681035617116163). Apparently, passwords can be inferred "based on micro-motions of the user’s hand".. Oh ya and the length of said silver and the degree of vigor. My Apple Watch thinks I’m on an elliptical. Google definetly knows.. ...and to whom. Most companies probably know if they want, but it's probably not too interesting data.. Sadly my logs will be numerous in quantity but short in length.. Thank you!. In principle, this is true. However, the paper in this post has an open-access license (meaning it is available for anyone, free of charge: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076)). Depending on which publishing company, often you actually give away the rights to your paper. It belongs to the publisher and not the authors.

I wrote a few reviews where I used some of the figures from my own previous papers and we had to pay Nature or Science to do so.. Or just go to libgen.rs. Authors don’t always have full rights over the paper because there is a license agreement, sometimes you can’t share it immediately in public. Also you first have to find an email, not every paper has one, and even then it’s absolutely not guaranteed that author will even read your email and it won’t end up in spam. Just use SciHub. True, but aside from the fact that this is open access, it’s also worth checking sci-hub first as well.. I was looking for the paper about accelerometer data.. Or your random crazy schizophrenic neighbour.

When reading the cryptonomicon, I googled "Van Eck phreaking" to see it in action.  And one of the first results was one of those paranoid schizophrenic "targeted individual" people.    He was convinced that his neighbours were spying on him via Van Eck phreaking, so to prove it he built his own complete setup.(just found it again) [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gRWlmxom7I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gRWlmxom7I). Book, historical fiction, by Neal Stephenson. It's got a delightful number of technical tangents in it.. I agree whole heartedly. I sometimes wish he didn't hate denouements so thoroughly though. His older short stories are also pretty great too. He finds ways to marry high concept plot with believable and interesting characters and make it work on both levels.. And i have to stop shoving my phone up my ass. Ya at least your link attrmpted describing the ideas but they arent technologies, and not developed as such (and facebook certainly wont disclose details). The other link took all the interesting stuff out of it, and i was left with “this is an article?” Turns out it isnt one lol.

Aside from that it is totally bonkers thst you can simply have an idea, file a piece of paper saying the idea, dont have to prove thst it works or even try to make it work, and then literally sur anybodyelse and win for actually coming up with the idea independently and doing all the work to actually make it functional. And theyre given a very long time period in whcih they get to monopolise and monetize this idea for a considerable length of time.

Like ive thought of this idea. “Lets take any material, create a flst section, then take a skinny material and attach in such a way that you can place ones foot on the big section, then take a step and it stays underfoot. We call it a shoe.”  File it with the patent office, and if nobody else has filed for a patent, then i can then immediately start going around and suing anyone who makes shoes and winning their money.
Now i can make millions, off a product i never made, paid for, nor created.. [deleted]. They're talking about a [laser microphone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laser_microphone).. That's a chilling statement.. Or use a password manager.. But Biometrics have a big security disadvantage. Don’t forget that information from additional sensors can increase accuracy by orders of magnitude. If an app also has access to the camera, microphone, tracking cookies, device location, username, or personal information (name/address/age, etc.) It will know exactly what to look for when, and how to interpret it.. All android from 10 and above can turn off sensors. It stops camera, mic, gyroscope, magnitometer, and all others.  I leave sensors off until I need it (rotate to landscape, use camera, Shazam, etc).

Android permits ALL apps to read sensors except for camera and mic which need permission.

To do it, Google howto enable developers options and then settings->developers options->quick settings developers tiles. Select 'sensors off' and now you see a new sensor tile when you swipe down from home screen.

Move it to 1st 4 so you only have a down gesture to turn off/on.

Then nothing can read sensors. Download a sound recorder and notice it sees 0db vol. 

Combine with a mock location app like location changer and even an intelligence agency can track you. Well, except for cell tower, bluetooth beacons, or wifi. But I leave bluetooth and wifi off until I need it. I can live with the cell tower detection.

I know this -- I'm not guessing. I wrote software to notify me the second my GPS is giving my real location or sensors turn on.

Then one night at 3am, I get woken up. Needless to say, they left me alone after that (whoever they were) since I simply went dark again. :-). Must never have assumed someone would be that paranoid. Or they put a backdoor on the phone but anyone that sloppy to trip my detection probably isn't that serious.. What federal regulations if any are currently in place to prevent companies from using biometric data from personal devices? Seems the whole “our phone is listening and then selling info to advertisers” is actually a lot more complex than just the microphone. 

I know there are different state regulations but big data/tech has so much power and info the public probably would crap themselves if they knew.. Pine & Purism phones have kill switches.. https://www.businessinsider.com/wifi-camera-sees-through-walls-2017-5. This is the paper cited for the word reconstruction aspect. Can you explain how this is physics instead of being strictly a computer science identification, computational linguistics, and signal analysis paper?

http://www.phpathak.com/files/accelword-mobisys.pdf

I don’t think the typical scientist would consider speech recognition by a mobile advice or anything adjacent to be “physics” unless it concerned a very specific aspect of the physical system.

Most of the papers cited are of this sort; there’s very little biomechanics or acoustic physics at play in most of the papers.. Well sure, but not this study. They only reference it. Your title implies that they did it with smart phone accelerometer data and many are responding to that implication.. Correct, there are many other ways to gather intelligence on an individual however accelerometer data is extremely useful for detecting things like the way a person walks.  Every person has a unique gate as well as a unique way they type on a keyboard.  So this is a way homeland security can analyze the various security videos clips of that maniac walking around planting devices around the capital on Jan 6th render his motions into data points that can be correlated and then monitor accelerometer data of huge volumes of people around the country in order to correlate the traitorous lurching of a madman with the video and at least greatly narrow the field of suspects if not single out him/her directly.  

One mustn't assume that the data conveyed by the various sensors on our devices to the software platforms they are running on are all there is to be analyzed.  Imagine if you are say the NSA and can glean raw data from the sensors and analyze it with software that is far more capable than anything you can imagine.  The possibilities are very much beyond what most people believe is physically and scientifically possible. I assure you that this is indeed the case.  Incredibly subtle Bioelectromagnetic emenations as well as biophotonic emissions are recorded and/or sent real-time to interested parties for purposes of direct neurological intervention.  Whether for a medical condition that needs constant monitoring or for intelligence purposes Including listening to one's silent speech (ie. Thoughts) directly communicating via microwave auditory effect or directional heterodyne ultrasound in effect putting voices in a targets head that only they can hear thus Making them appear insane In turn discrediting them.

 Our cellphones accelerometer can feel the vibrations of our heartbeat and respiration and from that one can deduce whether the individual is nervous or anxious along with thermographic imaging to detect individuals with a fever or someone hiding something under their clothing these are very useful tools when monitoring a long line of people waiting to pass through security at the airport.. Okay, but only if you integrate it with some other sensor, it cannot work alone (as far as i know). I suspected they'd say something like that. But judging by the heat map generated by SwiftKey, I highly doubt anyone could lift why such data. If you were pinpoint accurate on each tap, in theory maybe that concept might work. In reality we're not very exact with our touches.. The angle of the dangle is proportional to the heat of the meat. Degree of vigor is the name of my mixtape. Frequent & Vigorous.  Close enough. Lol same. A Facebook app that tell who fapped to one of your photos?   
Or a particular accurate *Super Like* from Tinder. \[ Oh, you'd be surprised. \]

. . .

And we all just accept this.

The thing that gets me isn't even that people don't care, it's that the device is that sensitive in the first place. They \*must\* have built it to be that sensitive \*on accident\*. No one at Apple was like "let's invest billions of dollars making our products more attractive to shady advertisers who want to use our hardware as a black market for user data, where we get a 0% cut". They \*must\* have built it to be insanely sensitive \*accidentally\*. How often does that happen???. based. I'm gonna say something utterly novel that has never been said before

Capitalism... bad...?. Eh, I've always assumed that my life is too boring for anyone to bother spying on.

That being said .. I've always wondered if, and how quickly, it would get anyone's attention if, say, two individuals were to begin trading text messages in some new enigma-grade-or-better cypher system. Something that would require institutional resources to break. The kind of attention one might earn is perhaps not worth the experiment.. [deleted]. Whoa, my notary at my mortgage closing complained about \_exactly this\_ being done to him by his ex-girlfriend who was dating some NSA hacker.. and an imperial pint of semen. YES!  Who would think you could read a 3,000 page series of books about the evolution of currencies and cryptography from the 1400s to today and actually be enthralled by the plot and characters?  Reamde was friggin great too.. Now call me **bzzzzt bzzzzt**. Your last paragraph demonstrates a complete lack of understanding of how patents work.. You’ll notice that all the sharks have laser beams attached to their heads.. I might have to read up on that.. How so?   
It’s a very effective form of authentication that does not share vulnerabilities with other forms.  It confirms that you are in possession of an authorized device and that you look like the authorized user. That’s significantly more secure than a password 99.99% of the time.   
I would wager that a million passwords are misplaced, stolen, hacked, or leaked for every one unauthorized access from facial recognition.. Good point. This is essentially what the researchers say in [the paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3309074.3309076) as well: "Furthermore, data from other sensors and auxiliary data may be available to potential adversaries, improving their capability to draw sensitive inferences, while the methods considered in this paper solely rely on accelerometer data. Thus, our work represents only an initial and non-exhaustive exploration of the topic.". Don’t allow it to happen to you. No need for regulation, just never allow it to happen. Don’t buy phones indiscriminately. Buy, for example, a Pixel, put a security/privacy minded ROM like CalyxOS on it or grapheneOS if you wanna go even further. Buy a pinephone or the upcoming Librem 5, they run Linux. 

Regulating a manufacturers ability to record accelerometer data for data harvesting may seem like a simple and harmless action, but it would require enforcement, audits, and a bunch of old people who don’t know how to open the Google, let alone know what an accelerometer does and how it’s integrated with the rest of the software, those old people then have to just kinda make rules and hope they work out. 

It also begs the question of what is and isn’t data harvesting vs the service the customer wants. Is step-counting an example of illegal data harvesting? Does that information leave the phone? Is it only “data harvesting” if the company then uses that information for ads, or is it just data harvesting for having it on their servers? Again, this will be decided by people who don’t understand what tf a Facebook even is.. Yes we are thank you! Yep, can do without the beam i’d say to rewrite world famous because there’s no Puerto Ricans in Alabama in Connecticut there’s just ignorance and arrogance at its finest :)

Edit: That’s good you have that laying around. Also disregard the snarky comments above. Props to you for using a KA is not too different once you do the legwork? Cause that’s only noon. The paper was presented in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Cryptography, Security, and Privacy. The problem was solved using a black-box model of the accelerometer. We're getting the result after analyzing a big data set and using it to quantify a particular event because of periodic behavior not the other way around by using physical model of accelerometer to predict the desired behavior. So it does stray away from physics. As you said this is clearly a problem of signal processing (convolution, filtering, etc), not physics.. ofc they did it wtf, just not in that paper. the linked paper is more like an overview. you can read they had 98% accuracy (speech recognition) in 2016 from papers. with accelerometers from smartphones. god knows whats the % now.. Which is directly influenced by the mass of the ass. inversely*. Hmu. It’s worth noting as well that most journals make academics pay to make their articles open access, in my field often several thousands of dollars.

I’d love to publish open access, but it’s only possible at journals where my institution has a open access agreement and will cover the fees. I certainly don’t make enough money or get enough funding to afford it…. I do not think capitalism is inherently bad, but it can be taken too far.

That said now you have the emergence of good\* open access journals - of course this means you have to pay 1000 - 4000 dollars to publish...

A middle way is journals that allow Arxiv Pre/Post-prints.

\-

(\* not counting the shitty predatory open access journals). Ciphers like enigma are trivial to break these days, but regular RSA (with a decent key size) is effectively unbreakable even with "institutional resources". Unless someone has a secret quantum computer several orders of magnitude better than the known ones. Anyway, it doesn't attract particular attention because everyone using iMessage, signal, or WhatsApp is doing it.. These systems already exist. The Signal app is the best example and is an extremely secure communication platform. 

Additionally, there are plenty of other digital communication methods that all the resources in the world can't break in a useful time frame.. Lovely!. ..what?. Thanks for correcting me, and showing what i dont know, andcthen teaching me what it actually is.  /s. Frick'n Lazers!. You used to be able to buy a cheap one out of the back of a Pop Sci magazine back in the 90s, next to Dr Winifred Cutler's aphrodisiac junk.. A safe password is usually better than biometrics. Biometric data can be misused, e.g. it's possible to recreate fingerprints or trick face ID by showing a picture. Also, biometric data can be stolen if they aren't stored properly. If you have a safe password that noone knows, it is better than biometrics.. Sorry to jump in 2 days late - that article by Zhang isn't exactly saying that.

1. It's not 98% accuracy. It's 98% _as accurate_ as standard speech recognition through mic signals and industry standard recognition models. 

2. It's actually not even recognition; the article states this explicitly. It's learning a binary classifier to categorize a speech event as a single specific wakeword or not. 

3. The accuracy is only about 85% (I didn't look at the exact math, but I presume it's roughly an F1 score), on a limited test set with limited users, and that is in the best case. Adding in standard use case noise or user mobility drops that.. And the D2F. Yeeahh .. but if the accelerometer data can be used to infer your keystrokes,  it's all for nothing. I was thinking of something with a whole new scheme, something they will not have seen yet. Just a test to see if anyone's paying attention.. Since the other person didn't explain, I will. Patent law (at least in the US) requires that something be non-obvious, new, and useful. Shoes are a thing that already exists, and I think you could potentially argue that they're an obvious invention if you have feet (although I'm not a lawyer). Not having to actually make the thing is a feature, not a bug. If you come up with an idea but don't have the money to bring it to market, you want to be able to show it to investors without worrying about it getting stolen.

Obviously stuff gets through because there's a lot of patents, new technology is complicated, and there are strong incentives to patent things even if it's not 100% valid. There's also an argument to be made that software parents aren't a good thing. I'm not going to say the patent system is perfect.. My pleasure. Cheers! /s. Wait what? 🤣🤣. “Better” is a very vague term.   
Sure, a password is more secure in a laboratory or in the case of kidnapping, but in practice, they’re terrible. For a number of reasons, but the big ones are that it requires a person to memorize it, which results in all sorts of insecure workarounds, and that it must be transmitted for authentication. Hundreds of millions of passwords have been leaked due to relying on the web host to store and secure them. Current biometric authentication requires nothing from the user, closing so many loopholes right there, and takes place on the user’s device in a black box with the operating system vouching for the results, such that nothing sensitive is ever transmitted or saved by the vendor.     
So while printing a mask of someone’s face and stealing their phone is absolutely a vulnerability right now, it’s just not a significant issue when you compare real-world results.. From an MIT paper on this kind of attack:

>By default, on the most recent versions of iOS and Android, sensor readings are paused when the user is not focused on the application in the foreground. (1)

So your secure messaging app itself, say Signal, would have to actively be collecting your sensor data and sharing that for your messages to be compromised. Since the app itself is open source, I see little reason to be concerned at this time about this type of data collection being used against users of secure messaging services.

Also, from the same paper's conclusion: "Overall, smartphone operating systems have responded well to the discovery of accelerometer and gyroscope based side channel attacks. Implementing this attack would require aiming for users with older operating systems, which luckily, Android still has lots of."

(1) [Sauce](https://css.csail.mit.edu/6.858/2019/projects/lnj-jseibel.pdf). Usually it's better to show your scheme to as many people as you can to validate, test it, and try to poke holes in it. Whatever you come up with yourself will probably not be original and will likely have issues that you, the creator, cannot see.

That's also EXACTLY why signal's algorithm is likely better than anything you can come up with. It's creator made it open source and they just let great minds go HAM trying to break it and then they took their feedback and improved and iterated until what they had was basically bulletproof.. Yup i agree and thought the same. I was just being sarcastically over the top with using a shoe as an example.  Theres a few documentaries that explore how americas patents are unusually long and they are being abused horribly (making large amiunts of money by suing) . Sorry i cant think of their names.. If a government wanted to target someone, or everyone, they can bypass restrictions via the phone itself and constantly track accelerometer data. If it’s as valuable as this research implies, I would be surprised if something like this hasn’t been done. I did run it past a friend who's got some advanced education in that field .. he told me the topic was touched on somewhere in class, that they said it had crypto possibilities. Waiting to hear if he still has contact with his friend at the No Such Agency place to pass the scheme by. Same mass, same volume, different buoyancy?. nan. When the sand is on top the hourglass leans to the sides of the tube, causing friction. ~~You can see that it attains top speed around halfway up the tube once it no longer leans to the side.~~

E: Didn't notice the gif skips forward. . Found an explanation after a little research. 

 http://www.grand-illusions.com/articles/floating_hourglass/page02.shtml. Haha neat little trick


When the sand is in the top, the bottom is more buoyant than the top and will cant off at an angle as it tries to rotate. That action causes friction against the sides of the container. When the enough sand reaches the bottom that it's rotating action isn't enough for it to fight the buoyancy, it rises . I don't understand this , so I'm afraid of it . It also has the same buoyancy.. [One hourglass is slightly positively buoyant, and the other one is slightly negatively buoyant.](http://www.grand-illusions.com/images/articles/articles/floating_hourglass/mainimage.jpg) so the starting position is that one glass is at the top of its tube, and the other is at the bottom. However when you turn the device upside down, each inverted hourglass now has sand at the top, and air at the bottom. This makes it top heavy, or bottom buoyant if you like, and it has a tendency to try and flip over. However, it cannot do this because it fits fairly snugly within the tube. But the effect is that it wedges itself in, and it is held in place by friction. Technically this is static friction, which is sometimes called ' stiction'.

As the sand falls through the hourglass, its tendency to flip over is reduced, until it 'unsticks' from the side, and positively buoyant glass floats to the top, and the other descends to the bottom. The trick depends on the two hourglasses being only slightly positively or negatively buoyant. Were this not the case, their natural buoyancy would be strong enough to overcome the 'stiction' effect immediately, and the trick would not work. [Link to source](http://www.grand-illusions.com/articles/floating_hourglass/page02.shtml). You know what is interesting?

Only people who understand physics would be weirded out by this.. Where can I buy one of these???. This honestly really blowed my mind.. Please correct my way of thinking if it's wrong: If some of the sand is in freefall then that small amount temporarily does not contribute to the overall downward force of gravity of the mass, allowing it to float.  Once all the sand settles to the bottom it should sink again.. is there a question here that I am missing?

the hourglass inside is floating,  you turn it upside down and the hourglass inside starts to float again.   

What are you expecting?. How was this trick discovered? It doesn't seem like the sort of thing you build only to discover by accident, but what kind of mind would design it and then have it work?. Anyone know where you can buy this?. It could be entirely coincidental. If the hourglass is just a tiny bit buoyant, it would rise as you flip it over while also the sand starts falling. It's tempting to look for a connection through the hourglass, but the orientation of the whole object might be the only common factor.. Isn't this just conservation of momentum? Sand falls down, something has to go up. Friction is merely a small effect on top of that, not explaining the motion Itself.. /r/gifsthatendtoosoon. shifting mass. I don't think you need friction to explain this at all. It's more of an optical illusion than anything else. Bubbles want to rise. If you think of the air in the hourglass as a bubble, it starts out at the top. When you flip the cylinder, you move the bubble to the bottom of the cylinder, so the bubble wants to move back to the top. Even before the hourglass starts to move, the sand falling down is the same as the air (the "bubble") moving up. The center of the bubble, so to speak, is rising as soon as the cylinder flips over and the sand begins to fall. 

Of course, the buoyant force of the hourglass is weaker than a plain bubble, because the glass and sand weigh it down, so it is easier for the bubble to rise by letting sand fall, and once it does start to rise, the weight of the hourglass make it rise relatively slowly.. Seems to me that the rate at which the fluid can flow around the hourglass has to have something to do with it. . [deleted]. This is the right answer anyway!. [One hourglass is slightly positively buoyant, and the other one is slightly negatively buoyant.](http://www.grand-illusions.com/images/articles/articles/floating_hourglass/mainimage.jpg) so the starting position is that one glass is at the top of its tube, and the other is at the bottom. However when you turn the device upside down, each inverted hourglass now has sand at the top, and air at the bottom. This makes it top heavy, or bottom buoyant if you like, and it has a tendency to try and flip over. However, it cannot do this because it fits fairly snugly within the tube. But the effect is that it wedges itself in, and it is held in place by friction. Technically this is static friction, which is sometimes called ' stiction'.

As the sand falls through the hourglass, its tendency to flip over is reduced, until it 'unsticks' from the side, and positively buoyant glass floats to the top, and the other descends to the bottom. The trick depends on the two hourglasses being only slightly positively or negatively buoyant. Were this not the case, their natural buoyancy would be strong enough to overcome the 'stiction' effect immediately, and the trick would not work. [Link to source](http://www.grand-illusions.com/articles/floating_hourglass/page02.shtml). that's kind of disappointing.. Yeah lets burn it on a stake. Did you even notice that your copied text explained two oppositely-behaving devices, while the image in this thread only has one?. Bravo for the explanation, such trickery :). Maybe even too much. See u/NiceSasquatch 's [comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6xdjwr/same_mass_same_volume_different_buoyancy/dmgezt0/?context=3&utm_content=context&utm_medium=message&utm_source=reddit&utm_name=frontpage). . I want to know this too!

Edit: google: newton hourglass. You're neglecting the fact that velocity has been introduced, and the sand hitting the bottom would introduce additional downward force. As mentioned above, this phenomenon is caused solely by the slight tilt of the hourglass creating friction with the sides of the cylinder.. The confusion is over why it doesn't just pop up to the top right away, it just sits at the bottom for a minute before rising.

The reasoning behind this phenomenon has been explained very well by several comments on this thread.. You are so very right.


Wonderful example of overthinking correlation. . Google "Floating Hourglass". That going up is technically done by the earth in this case. I think.. No. Friction is the only way this will work. When you research to see the whole trick ([Source](http://www.grand-illusions.com/images/articles/articles/floating_hourglass/mainimage.jpg)), you'll find that normally there are two tubes side by side, with identical hourglasses in them. In one tube, the hourglass is on the bottom. In the other, the hourglass is on the top. Your explanation implies that both hourglasses would be on the top; therefore, your explanation is incorrect.. That might have something to do with the speed at which it rises but the reason it starts rising is because it's top-heavy and trying to flip over before the sand starts to pour to the bottom and allows it to level out and begin to float.. Yes, thank you, that will be very fine. Do you have a suggestion for an entrée to go with that?. I think that conservation oft momentum would not explain, why it needs time to start rising.. > sometimes called ' stiction'.

This, I will outlaw when I become dictator.. > Technically this is static friction, which is sometimes called ' stiction'.

And now you also understand exactly how Seagate HDDs [used to fail](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7hSj_uE_BKM) back in the 80's.. nope.  the shifting sand is irrelevant. both instances have the same buoyancy. yes, it explained the concept and they had an image on the website.. Thanks, buddy.. A better way to say it is that potential energy is slowly pumped into kinetic and then back into potential. Motion is also explained by the fact that the top position has the lowest potential energy.. Pairs well with a red wine. [deleted]. That would be very strict of you. You'd be some type of 'strictator'.. But...but *why*? It's so useful and succinct!. Please, at the same time set Pi to a more rational alternative.. The rare, benevolent dictator.. This, I've allready gone through my lecture notes for Physics 211 and edited it in. 

A generation of engineers will grow up knowing this 'fact' now.. lmfao. Freedom for portmanteaus! Down with the prescriptivist dictator!. [deleted]. 90s, dude. 90s.. thanks, interesting! What was going on there exactly? just a warning sound?. The wording is awkward.  It would be better to phrase it as

When the sand is in the top half of the hourglass, the center of mass is above the center of buoyancy, resulting in a torque (righting moment), pushing it against the sides of the tube.  As the sand lowers from the top to the bottom, the center of mass lowers, until that righting moment isn't enough to produce enough friction to keep the whole thing from rising, at which point it does.. This is the correct answer.
. What potential energy being pumped into kinetic are we talking about? You don't mean the sand dropping from the upper half to give the whole thing kinetic energy?. And when you're finally deposed and sent to prison you'll get to experience lots of diction.. It hurts my sensibilities!. A cromulent word that embigins the vocabulary! . When something is useful *and* succinct, it is sometimes called 'uscinct.'. Easily done. I hereby decree that 10 = π. You may find that working with integers >3 is a trifle more cumbersome, but I'm sure you'll get used to it.. I actually myself take part in efforts to teach people certain wrong words (in benign ways). :-) I would love for it to take hold and people be recognised as coming from around here based on that strange word they use.. > portmanteaus

Even that word itself is ugly (when used in English)!. You need to include the potential energy of the water, as its center of mass is moving downwards. Same as in any buoyancy problem.. His cellmates will speak clearly?. The prison guards will try to prevent that using contradiction.. Well, you'll have to tator your dic somewhere else then, around these here parts we *like* ourselves some 'stiction.. When something is sometimes useful and succinct, it is sometimes called 'suscinct'. And when something is sometimes useful and suscinct, it is sometimes called 'sussinct'. Be sure to add these to your spellcheck dictionary to ensure they aren't improperly flagged.. *Red leather yellow leather red leather yellow leather...*. *Keep it at the tip of your tongue . . .*

*You know New York.  You need New York.  You know you need unique New York . . .*

*He thrusts his fists against the post and still insists he sees the ghost . . .*
 Scientists find first evidence that black holes are the source of dark energy. nan. Link to the papers:

https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/acb704

https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/acac2e. Whoa, whoa, whoa.  So as best as I can tell from reading parts of these papers, it sounds a lot like they are saying that while naive black hole solutions with singularities such as the Schwarzschild/Kerr solutions in flat spacetime don't increase in mass over time, recent progress in modelling less naive black hole solutions without singularities situated in a more realistic expanding Robertson-Walker metric shows that they *can* increase in mass over time, depending on what the interior region of the black hole looks like (some sorts of interior-region solutions don't result in mass growth, while other sorts do, with the rate of mass growth depending on the details of the interior-region solution).  They make the claim that this increase in mass is an effect that is analogous to the change in wavelength of e.g. photons as the universe expands (cosmological redshift).

Through such a "cosmological coupling" mechanism, they seem to be arguing that cosmological expansion itself can be responsible for driving the especially fast growth of SMBHs in the early universe as opposed to other known mechanisms such as accretion and mergers (a well-known struggle for current models of SMBH formation based only on known mechanisms), and that this ought to be empirically confirmable by looking at the growth rates of certain kinds of black hole populations' masses at different redshifts to identify a redshift-dependence (i.e. time-dependence) and distinguish cosmological-coupling-fueled growth from growth due to accretion/mergers:

>In this paper, we perform a direct test of BH mass growth due to cosmological coupling. A recent study by Farrah et al. (2023) compares the BH masses M_BH and host galaxy stellar masses M* of “red-sequence” elliptical galaxies over 6–9 Gyr, from the current epoch back to z ∼ 2.7. The study finds that the BHs increase in mass over this time period by a factor of 8–20× relative to the stellar mass. The growth factor depends on redshift, with a higher factor at higher redshifts. Because SMBH growth via accretion is expected to be insignificant in red-sequence ellipticals, and because galaxy–galaxy mergers should not on average increase SMBH mass relative to stellar mass, this preferential increase in SMBH mass is challenging to explain via standard galaxy assembly pathways (Farrah et al. 2023, Section 5). We here determine if this mass increase is consistent with cosmological coupling and, if so, the constraints on the coupling strength k.

>...

>... We then determine the value of k needed to align each high-redshift sample with the local sample in the M_BH–M* plane. If the growth in BH mass is due to cosmological coupling alone, regardless of sample redshift, the same value of k will be recovered.

>... The result is a probability that can be used to reject the hypothesis that the samples are drawn from the same distribution in the MBH–M* plane, i.e., that they are cosmologically coupled at this k.

>... The redshift dependence of mass growth translates to the same value k ∼ 3 across all five comparisons, as predicted by growth due to cosmological coupling alone. ...

So they seem to be claiming that they succeeded in distinguishing the observed excessive growth rate of SMBHs in the early universe to be due to this cosmological coupling, and not due to other methods which are already known to be insufficient for explaining said growth rate.

They then go on, and seem to essentially be saying that measurements of the strength of this cosmological coupling, k, can be used to place observational constraints on the parameters governing the possible interior solutions for real black holes; and in particular, that the naive Kerr solution (which does not gain mass over time) as well as other solutions which don't gain mass over time are all excluded at high confidence, nearly 4-sigma:

>... We find a consistent value of k = 2.96 (-1.46, +1.65). Combining the results from each local comparison gives

>k = 3.11 (-1.33, +1.19)  (90% confidence)

>which excludes k = 0 at 99.98% confidence, equivalent to >3.9σ observational exclusion of the singular Kerr interior solution.

They follow up to say that the k~3 measured value suggests that realistic black hole interiors have non-singular solutions and are dominated by vacuum energy:

>... Furthermore, the recovered value of k ∼ 3 is consistent with SMBHs having vacuum energy interiors. Our study thus makes the existence argument for a cosmologically realistic BH solution in GR with a non-singular vacuum energy interior.

They then seem to immediately follow that up by saying that the measured value of k~3 implies that black holes would grow in mass roughly proportional to the cube of the scale factor a^(3), and when you combine that increase with the normal inverse-cube density decrease of matter due to expansion (proportional to a^(-3)), this cosmologically-coupled mass increase should appear phenomenologically as a roughly constant energy density ... and that applying the constraint of conservation of energy necessitates such a population of black holes must also contribute a negative pressure proportional to that energy density:

>Equation (1) implies that a population of k ∼ 3 BHs will gain mass proportional to a^(3). Within an RW cosmology, however, all objects dilute in number density proportional to a^(−3). When accretion becomes subdominant to growth by cosmological coupling, this population of BHs will contribute in aggregate as a nearly cosmologically constant energy density. From conservation of stress-energy, this is only possible if the BHs also contribute cosmological pressure equal to the negative of their energy density, making k ∼ 3 BHs a cosmological dark energy species.

That would make it ultimately similar to the standard Lambda-CDM model of dark energy as a cosmological constant, where there is a constant positive vacuum energy density with negative pressure that drives expansion.

And finally they appear to investigate whether cosmologically-coupled k~3 realistic black holes of stellar collapse origin could explain the entire measured dark energy density (about 68% of the universe's total energy density), and find that it *can*:

>If k ∼ 3 BHs contribute as a cosmological dark energy species, a natural question is whether they can contribute all of the observed ΩΛ. We test this by assuming that: (1) BHs couple with k = 3, consistent with our measured value; (2) BHs are the only source for ΩΛ, and (3) BHs are made solely from the deaths of massive stars. Under these assumptions, the total BH mass from the cosmic history of star formation (and subsequent cosmological mass growth) should be consistent with ΩΛ = 0.68.

>It follows from Equation (1) that cosmological coupling in BHs with k = 3 will produce a BH population with masses >10^(2) M⊙. If these BHs are distributed in galactic halos, they will form a population of MAssive Compact Halo Objects (MACHOs). In Appendix B, we consider the consistency of SFRDs in Figure 2 with MACHO constraints from wide halo binaries, microlensing of objects in the Large Magellanic Cloud, and the existence of ultra-faint dwarfs (UFDs). We conclude that non-singular k = 3 BHs are in harmony with MACHO constraints while producing ΩΛ = 0.68, driving late-time accelerating expansion.

They propose a laundry list of possible additional future tests of this result, before summarizing the conclusions again ...

>Realistic astrophysical BH models must become cosmological at large distance from the BH. Non-singular cosmological BH models can couple to the expansion of the universe, gaining mass proportional to the scale factor raised to some power k. A recent study of SMBHs within elliptical galaxies across ∼7 Gyr finds redshift-dependent 8–20× preferential BH growth, relative to galaxy stellar mass. We show that this growth excludes decoupled (k = 0) BH models at 99.98% confidence. Our measured value of k = 3.11 (-1.33, +1.19) at 90% confidence is consistent with vacuum energy interior BH models that have been studied for over half a century. Cosmological conservation of stress-energy implies that k = 3 BHs contribute as a dark energy species. We show that k = 3 stellar remnant BHs produce the measured value of ΩΛ within a wide range of observationally viable cosmic star formation histories, stellar IMFs, and remnant accretion. They remain consistent with constraints on halo compact objects and they naturally explain the “coincidence problem,” because dark energy domination can only occur after cosmic dawn. Taken together, we propose that stellar remnant k = 3 BHs are the astrophysical origin for the late-time accelerating expansion of the universe.

So the TL;DR seems to be:  "We've developed observational evidence that the masses of black holes in nature are coupled to the universe's scale factor and therefore increase over time as the universe expands, and that the measured magnitude of this growth/coupling is just the right size to contribute a constant dark energy density consistent with the observed amount."

So ... yeah, holy shit.  This would both provide an origin for dark energy *and* solve the mystery of how SMBHs grow so fast in the early universe, and seems to do so without invoking any new physical mechanisms that aren't present in standard general relativity — the argument essentially seems to be that the naive black hole solutions we know and love are too naive and don't capture this recently-identified mechanism for black hole growth, and that realistic black hole solutions do possess said mechanism as a feature ... and that by placing observation-driven constraints on these more-realistic solutions, we basically get the correct amount of dark energy for free.

That's fking wild if it's correct.. For such a dramatic and extraordinary claim... 

This article sure is really sparse on any coherent explanation, and is just downright bad at explaining this supposed claim. 

Basically it just says: 

-----------------------------------

1) Black holes contain vacuum energy. 

2) The fact that they contain vacuum energy is somehow the magical reason Dark Energy exists. (No further clarification.)

3) None of this violates Einstein's theories. (Again, no further clarification there.) 

----------------------------

Just a bunch of dramatic claims, without any proper explanation in this article. 

I'm not saying this claim has no merit, but just that the linked to article has ZERO value of explanation, and you'll just be left scratching your head, perplexed, saying to yourself, 

"What?!". Thank you for this posting.  The ApJ Letters article explains the coupling between the supermassive black holes and the cosmological expansion by "Einstein’s equations, however, give no prescription for converting the actual, position-dependent, distribution of stress-energy observed at late times into a position-independent source. Croker & Weiner (2019) resolved this averaging ambiguity, showing how the Einstein–Hilbert action gives the necessary relation between the actual distribution of stress-energy and the source for the RW model. ... A consequence of this result is that relativistic material, located anywhere, can become cosmologically coupled to the expansion rate."

The Croker & Weiner paper seems to be an essential part of this.  I found [this](https://aasnova.org/2019/12/30/selections-from-2019-connecting-the-universes-large-and-small-scales/) article from the American Astronomical Society.  Can anyone elaborate?. My (very brief) reading of the papers makes me think they have observational evidence of dark energy, not necessarily what it is. Maybe I’m wrong but it sounds like, in layman’s terms, black holes expand in an expanding universe even if they aren’t accreting, indicating that the fabric of space they exist in contains “stuff” or vacuum energy that they absorb. Hopefully someone can explain to me if thats totally wrong or if it’s right how that provides any explanation for what dark energy is.. Does this imply BHs won't evaporate? Are there any suppositions on what impact the supermassive ones evaporating would have on expansion/contractions? Or will BHs just keep growing until all other matter is pushed into them and then never evaporate? Interesting topics, but I have so many more questions than any kind of answer after this.. I guess I will have to wait for kurzgesagt or pbs space time to make a video and explain this to me. Also sciencephile. I only read the abstract, but the implication I got was that a black hole's mass, at least a rotating black hole's mass, is not necessary a constant in an expanding universe. The difference then manifests as a contribution to the cosmological constant which we call dark energy. There's a couple thoughts on this:

1. Is this specific to the fact such black holes are Kerr aka rotating black holes? The de Sitter-Schwarzschild solution is a black hole with dark energy and in this solution, dark energy as well as the black hole's mass remain constant.

2. As black hole formation is stochastically occuring in the universe as stars die, does this mean it's effectively a dynamically dark energy model like quintessence?

3. Does this imply dark energy is lumpy as black holes aren't homogeneously distributed in the universe?

Edit: Note that their explanation only works for a class of unorthodox black hole solutions.

2nd edit: Much more extensive thoughts here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1152dae/can_we_get_theoretical_about_the_black_holedark/j90afrz/. How would this change the likely future and death of the universe?. Isn’t Dark Energy itself still a hypothetical form of energy?. Fascinating. I actually understand a lot of this, didn’t do phd though….. Laymans question here. How can one tell the difference between changes in speed and changes in space?. i determined this when i was 10, they are both big scary things that break everything.. Black holes are increasing so much in mass that they are pushing the universe farther apart? I never understood how the singularity was an end, like where does the matter go? Sounds like it’s just adding to the mass of the black hole which increases the mass of the universe because the mass going through the singularity creates more mass than the original material. Does any of that make sense from someone who is not a physicist but a big fan boy of it?. Would this mean that black holes cause the net density of the universe to decrease despite being of essentially infinite density?. It appears an advanced enough society can halt the expansion of the universe by discombobulating black holes. Let's get to work, gentlemen.. I think on smaller scale this could also explain measured velocities of stars in galaxies. Every galaxy has strong source of dark energy at the center. I knew it. I wonder if this in anyway ties in to the concept of black holes ‘burping’ out matter very occasionally. Would definitely be an interesting thing to look into.. In a very broad sense, does this fundamentally change our understanding of the heat death vs “Big Crunch” debate? Have the odds of one happening over the other significantly changed given this new information?. So... and bear with me here as this is something I have no knowledge of and everyone else here seems far better informed... but does this mean that once Black Holes have consumed all matter that dark energy will either cease/stop accelerating? Likewise with it slowing as less matter is consumed. In which case doesn't this mean that both the Big Rip and Heat Death are no longer the likely models of the ultimate fate of the Universe?
Does this make the Big Crunch a potential candidate again?
Forgive Mr if I completely misunderstood.. If this mechanism also turns out to behave according to the second law of thermoD I am fcking sold!!!. What is vacuum energy and dark energy?. I think this observation and the conclusions drawn from it need a lot more thought. The vacuum expectation value is defined by the Higgs mechanism. How does that change in a black hole?  And if it does, why do we observe lambda as a constant?. I'm assuming this is testable and we'll be hearing much more about it very soon if there's actually anything to it, right? Because I just don't understand any of it right now.. Dark energy existed before black holes.. Are those vacuum energy BHs basically gravastars?. So does this mean that matter and radiation that falls into a black hole anywhere in the universe gets converted to vacuum energy and spread out everywhere in the universe?. Well duh. DARK energy. BLACK holes. It was in the name the whole time. I could have told you that. I knew it was them! Even when I knew it was something else....I knew it was black holes.... …sooooo mini black hole Acublierre Drive?. My ass has released some dark energy over the years. I knew that since I was 6 but no one believed me.. I mean, it’s kind of in the name.. this is so trippy. I can’t wait for this to come out on YouTube! The first channel will be a talking head, then if the theory is strong we will get drawings, then later we will get 3D animations!. Damn. That's awesome. Some 5 years ago, I asked a professor I had if it were possible that matter some how was connected to the flow of spacetime--as in, if some mass were to suddenly appear it would send out a 'wave' of gravitational information and it got me wondering if matter was some how the source for spacetime (since gravity is simply a geometric aspect of spacetime).  In particular I was trying to reason out why there should be some constant source of spacetime that was constantly being produced between all matter; the thought being that expansion was actually the constant flow of information (via gravitational fields) from all the matter in the universe--an acceleration of a mass though any interaction would emit spacetime waves just as an an accelerated charge would emit photons. At the time I had reading some papers that had likened spacetime to being an emergent property of some underlying, more fundamental entity(like the surface of a lake--the surface being the emergent property--there's no true, hardline delineation or physical interface that transition in a step from 'not in the lake' to 'being in the lake'); it got me wondering if the gravitational field/spacetime was less a background which matter lived in, but rather was the field produced by matter itself. 

Neat.. I find this fascinating. If it holds, it means no more singularity on a black hole. Super elegant, I hope more data comes out soon.. These are revolutionary articles. I don’t understand them. They use an interpretation of General Relativity where black holes contain vacuum energy and no singularities. I never heard of this.. As a black hole increases in size, it loses mass from Hawking radiation more slowly, and it will now apparently contain more volume and thus more vacuum energy to make it grow. So from zero to some point, call it the Cmuadamson Mass, it will shrink. Above that mass, it will now grow indefinitely.

This means the ultimate longterm fate of the universe is for the Black Hole era to continue indefinitely,  with all space ultimately being inside a black hole.. Armchair scientists everywhere: "Ha! Gotcha Bitch! I knew it!". Had to read that twice and yeah I agree with others - it doesn’t really explain it. Instead of “dark energy” they’re substituting vacuum energy within black holes instead, with no explanation of what vacuum energy is, as far as I can tell. What I got was, they see newer black holes growing faster than expected. They think it’s vacuum energy causing it, and the growth is coupled with the Universe, causing it to expand. I doubt I’m smart enough to understand those papers.. Well….black is considered as a dark color so the logic checks out.. At the very real risk of being completely off-base...

Am I reading this correctly that they are claiming to have observed an inverse relationship between the accumulation of mass into relatively small areas to the size of the universe?

Or to put it another way, if started from a nearly homogeneous distribution of mass in space, the mass 'holds' the space tightly - as the mass is accumulated, the space is no longer held as tightly and expands.

Anywhere near accurate?

Follow-up question:  If true, wouldn't this imply a solid-state universe?  Or would that require an effective means of reversing the accumulation of mass?. I thought it was my ex wife.

Who knew…. So, does this mean I’m a black hole?. This is huge news right? Why is it not in any mainstream news media???. All this talk of Quantum Realms and Dark Energy makes me think of comic books. 😂. Then, white matter is Albinos' production??. Can't wait to hear sabine hossenfelder blast this random idea to pieces.. Driving gravity in reverse? White holes? 

https://www.researchgate.net/figure/Penrose-diagram-of-the-Schwarzschild-black-hole\_fig4\_51951379. Tomo Albanese
With the idea of quantum foam, it sounds a bit like they are replacing a soap bubble with the balloon analogy I am using, does that sound correct? 

The concept of quantum foam is not really replacing the balloon analogy with the soap bubble analogy. Instead, the idea of quantum foam is a theoretical idea in physics that proposes that spacetime is not a smooth, continuous fabric, but rather that it is made up of a chaotic and fluctuating network of tiny "bubbles" of space-time that form and disappear on very small scales.

In the context of the universe's expansion and the behavior of black holes, the idea of quantum foam is not directly related to the proposed coupling between black holes and dark energy. However, the idea of quantum foam and the associated quantum fluctuations are relevant to the study of the behavior of matter and energy on extremely small scales, such as the behavior of subatomic particles.

So, while the analogy of a soap bubble or balloon could be used to explain some aspects of the coupling between black holes and the expanding universe, the concept of quantum foam is more related to the behavior of space-time and matter on the scale of subatomic particles.




Tomo Albanese
So it couldn't be true that black holes are just really big bubbles of expanding space time? 

No, it is not accurate to describe black holes as really big bubbles of expanding space-time, because the behavior and properties of black holes are very different from the idea of quantum foam or the expansion of space-time.

Black holes are regions of space where the gravitational pull is so strong that nothing, including light, can escape. They form when a massive star collapses in on itself, compressing its mass into a small space and creating a singularity, a point of infinite density and zero volume.

On the other hand, quantum foam is a theoretical concept that proposes that the fabric of space-time fluctuates and has a "foamy" appearance at very small scales, and it is not directly related to the behavior or properties of black holes. While the concept of quantum foam and the behavior of black holes are both relevant to the study of the universe at the smallest scales, they are distinct phenomena with different properties and dynamics.

It is important to note that black holes and quantum foam are both theoretical concepts that require further research and observation to better understand their properties and behavior. However, they are distinct ideas that should not be conflated or confused with each other.. So the universe is expanding because black holes are just chemistry class fire snakes that shit out dark matter. Got it. Fuck this universe. The relative scale seems way wrong.  Baryonic matter is about 5% of the total mass-energy of the universe, and dark energy is about 70%, so that's already a factor of 14.  Black holes contribute around 1% of the baryonic matter, so the energy contained in dark energy is about 1400 times the energy contained in black holes.  How does the contribution of energy in black holes make up that factor of over a thousand needed in order to account for how much dark energy there is?. We know this already from stellaris. [removed]. This seems to negate the idea that matter cannot be created or destroyed in the universe. The universe adds mass through something that happens in a black hole. It creates more mass than it ingests. So if the universe exist like the surface of a ballon, expanding outward then the “air” being blown into the universe is this exponential growth in mass produced by a black hole and this is dark matter. It hasn’t been observed because they have not accounted for this growth in mass of black holes. Eventually the universe will become a black hole and when all the mass in the universe is turned into dark matter by black holes another big bang will happen as it tries to ingest itself.. It's all getting a bit Lovecrafty... We should probably stop lol. I always thought that it was rupert murdoch's penthouse.. [deleted]. [removed]. So powerful it must emit something. So dense it doesn’t let the light go with it.. Does this put a big crunch back on the menu? If black holes drive expansion, and eventually, after a really long time, all the black holes evaporate, there is nothing driving expansion anymore, right? And gravity should slowly pull everything back together again. At least until things get dense for black holes to form once again.. "General Relativity is right again"  
PBS Spacetime, your turn. Quick please before nerdchills make me devolve into a singularity.. So, essentially, black holes eat lightning and crap thunder.  

Interesting idea in there!. Assuming this is true, can we now calculate ultimate fate of the Universe? (big crunch, big rip or something else). It's an interesting thought, we've known that as black holes consume matter and energy in their surroundings, they also spit out powerful jets of matter and energy, so it does make sense that they could account for the theoretical form of (dark) energy.. I wonder what the consequences for the end of the universe would be. It is thought that all black holes evaporate eventually. But within this context, that would probably contract the universe, which also makes the black holes bigger again.. Souls of the dead. Dark energy...black holes...dark...black..  It was right there in front of us the whole time!!!. Palpatine approves this message. Layman question here: So if black holes are getting bigger by consuming matter and expanding the universe, what happens when all matter is consumed and the universe is just one mega-massive black hole?. Observe and declare. No science here ☑️. Ew. Very cool theory, also explains the absence of white holes and avoids overcomplicating stuff by adding in other universes connecting to ours through black holes.

But does this mean that 'the fabric of space' is just another facet of matter/energy duo.(Please don't bite my head off if I wrote something stupid. I am not even a novice physicist). Is this evidence? Sounds like more postulation. What is dark energy? Someone please explain to an idiot like me. I like the idea that black holes suck everything in and make it so small and heavy and black that it appears elsewhere as dark energy that we can't see or measure. Makes perfect sense. When every bit of matter has been sucked into every black hole throughout the entire cosmos and they all collapse into themselves into one infinite abyss of incredibly dense nothingness I can imagine it going off with one heck of a big bang.. So black holes get proportionally more massive as the universe expands. Thus explaining the “missing” mass currently explained by “dark matter”. Got it.

If one thinks about “universe” as process, as current physics seems to, are black holes the “output”? On which case, what are the inputs?. So they’re the recyclers to entropy.  They’re taking material and filtering it and then spreading that out back into the universe as what we understand as “nothing” but that “nothing” is actually atoms or dead atoms filling in gaps of our ever expanding universe?. Random thought after reading this, please tell me why it’s wrong. 

Does this mean that the black holes are pulling the fabric of space time into their event horizon and causing the remaining space around them to stretch?. Well shit. Can someone please ELI5. Maybe a blackhole is neutron star which has a torus field that is ripping open space fabric because of the supermassive dense pressure which is collapsing faster than the speed of light! Then possibly stabilising for a long period leaving opened a Portal or wormhole. Interesting. So black holes grow over time and instead of taking up space, they push it out of the way in a sense. Is that about right?. Hmm. I wonder if the early expansion of the Universe during inflation could be attributed to over production of supermassive black holes that then drove huge expansion.

Once there was a low enough density of them, the expansion could decrease and be at nearly steady state as the only relatively newer black holes would be stellar in origin and so smaller. SMBH's could still form, but they would do so much more slowly.

Our current epoch could then be explained more conventionally as Dark Energy just dominates the rest of the sources in the FRW equations.

Whatever the case, this is a really cool concept. I hope more evidence can be corroborated and theory developed.. This is the kind of answer I was looking for. Thank you!. Only thing I'm left not understanding at all: what is the mechanism for black hole growth and how is that dependent on not having a singularity at the center? 

My current understanding is "something something non singularity something grows with the cube of the scale factor because something something vacuum energy". Im so hyped!

It would be THE physical discovery for the century (if not for a decade) if all goes right.. Thank you for the fantastic summary! Building off what you've said (I'll have to check out the paper myself later), if these black holes were to plausibly be an explanation for dark energy though, wouldn't they have to make up roughly 70% of the current cosmological energy density? I know from many "primordial black holes as dark _matter_" papers I've read, black holes are ruled out as DM (which only needs to make up 25% of the energy density) over a very wide range of mass scales. There are some exceptions (and I think the revelation that BH could grow with expansion could loosen or modify some observational constraints), but I find it difficult to believe BH could make up all of DE when we currently have a hard time using it to explain DM.

Edit: Yes, I understand the difference between dark matter and dark energy... I'm saying that if current experiments conclude that black holes cannot make up more than 25% of the cosmological energy density (the necessary amount to be dark matter), they surely cannot be dark energy because that would require them to make up 70% (the necessary amount to be dark energy), and they're already ruled out at densities well below that.. So what happens to the remaining SMBHs trillions and trillions of years in the super distant future? 

As long as space continues to expand, do they just continue to gain more mass than they lose to hawking radiation? Do they last forever?. Fantastic summary, thanks!. So is this saying SMBH's were formed by stellar collapse and grew by some internal vacuum energy? Wouldn't this suggest we would also be able to find BH"s with intermediate mass that iirc we haven't found yet?. [removed]. Wow. Thank you very much for this summary this was a fantastic read. I can't give you anything, but if we were in person I'd offer to buy you lunch.. Yea. Thank you for such a detailed analysis! Super interesting!. Now THIS is the answer I was looking for (and can just about remember enough to understand from uni lol). great reply.

> they seem to be arguing that cosmological expansion itself can be responsible for driving the especially fast growth of SMBHs

how do we know that the cosmological expansion is responsible for the fast growth of SMBHs and not the other way around?. Huzzah! Thank you for the precise answer. You are a gentleman and a scholar!. Sounds like a landmark paper. Do you have any thoughts as to whether this model might be consistent with any existing models of quantum gravity? Either quantum loop or string theory?. Thank you so much for the summary!. Thanks for the explanation! Do you have a digestible explanation for the mechanism of coupling?. or it is numerology because we found the same number in two different places? I am definitely no expert, so I should be sceptical, right?. I need you to comment on everything I read (ideally before I’ve read it) interpreting and distilling the facts and conclusions. This would make my life much simpler!. So they create more mass than what is absorbed? Some mechanics of the singularity cause this? So the universe expands because black hole attribute more mass that they presume is dark matter? The reason so much of the universe is dark matter is because from the beginning of the universe black holes have been ingesting mass and spitting out more and the added mass is therefore exponential because the universe creates more mass?. Duh. I'm not reading all that.. Could this also solve the information problem? You could extract some information from vibrations of the dark energy field. [deleted]. This comment makes me feel so stupid. What's the implication for the fate of the universe? Continual expansion on a massive scale?. Black holes make the universe grow by converting energy? 

If we could reduce the mass of black holes somehow, the universe would shrink? 🤔. So are we sort of saying that space time is a constant on average across the universe and we need expansion of the universe to compensate for the ultra energy density caused by black holes? Not a lawyer.

Edit: I said growth, but let’s say expansion. I linked to the actual papers in a comment. 

I agree about the article but I decided to use it because it's on the Imperial college website, where some of the authors are working.

Making "vulgarized" articles with papers seems to be more and more common.. That's when I go read the actual papers... Which are linked in the article.. Yeah, same reaction here.  

I also like the part where they say there's no need for a singularity to form, as if that doesn't overturn a whole lot of existing theory on its own, all else aside.  I know a singularity is a mathematical construct and not necessarily a tangible, physical thing, but isn't that tantamount to saying "you know all that math cosmologists and physicists worked out so elegantly for the last \~100 years?  Yeah, you may wanna go check your work"... like, how is that NOT the bigger thing being reported on here?!. Unless you're an expert/PhD in the specific field, there's no way in hell you'll understand the real explanation. And this is true for almost all articles about the frontier of theoretical physics. Not sure why this surprises you.. Agreed.. The interesting part to me is that it shows that dark energy is not necessarily a quantum gravity phenomenon, but contained within classical GR, a big surprise.

Albert seems to still be the 100% undefeated GOAT.

LIGO showed quantitatively accurate gravitational radiation and neutron star collisions show no dispersion with photons and gravitons propagating at exactly ‘c’.

It’s remarkable to me that the first modern theory of gravitation, from one person, has triumphed over any alternatives.. What you explained is about what I got from the article. According to the article, they're saying the vacuum energy causing the black holes to grow more than expected *is* the "dark energy". Note that "dark energy" has always just been a placeholder for something we didn't understand, not an actual thing. So this is their explanation for "dark energy".. That's my take as well, observational evidence in concordance with vacuum energy. So there is something that is behaving in a way that matches a cosmological constant. But no explanation of what such a term really is.

Still, it's an observation, repeatable and a target for study. That's a *massive* discovery.... Or does it mean that when the black holes stop having mass to feed on, the universe will go into a big crunch?. Yep! Welcome to science. One answer equals many more questions :). You forgot Sabine Hossenfelder in your list. In point 3, did you mean dark energy?. It's from a solution in a Kerr/Friedmann-Walker spacetime. I believe another paper found that if you have a relativistic object in such a spacetime then its energy/mass evolves in correspondence to a pressure in that spacetime. Then for a black hole it would be a sort of dark energy. So if you measure an evolution in black hole mass at the right right rate given cosmic expansion (nevermind a few uncertainties) then you associate black holes with dark energy.

I don't think they went so far as to suggest a link with quintessence or something like it. Black hole distribution does seem to be another potential problem with this. I also wonder about Wald's point that black holes don't seem to be nearly sufficient to source the observed dark energy density? He also suggested they likely wouldn't be stable.. Black holes wouldn't die out, for one. Hawking radiation seems completely kaput, which is hard to believe.. Correct me if I am wrong but from memory "Dark Energy" is the same way as saying "Unknown Energy". We've known it exists for quite some time; galaxies don't have enough mass to hold themselves together, so there must be \*something else\*, some "dark energy" (or 'dark matter', i might be describing dark matter) that holds it together with the gravity from everything else.. "Dark energy" is a generic placeholder term given to describe what we see as an accelerating expansion of the universe, which is very unexpected given only matter (including dark matter) and radiation. Einstein's equations solved for an expanding universe can explain this *ad hoc* with an energy term that has constant density with time. Since density is inverse to volume, that means it would increase in quantity as the universe expands any given volume. There are no known, accepted explanations for it. But we definitely observe it, regardless of any underlying theory.. Why don’t we leave everything alone to play out? I don’t see any advantage in meddling with the natural order of things. All we’ve done is screw up the earth with our inventions and desire to bend existence to our will. Now we want to experiment with the fabric of space and time?. Not necessarily, dark energy as an important driver of the universe's dynamics is a relatively recent phenomenon. The early universe was simply too dense to be significantly impacted by the relatively small density of dark energy (assuming it is constant or nearly so).. yeah, but they may be the reason it's speeding up. So we have decent reason to believe that:

1) Expansion, and more specifically inflation, existed at the beginning of the universe. This is likely the same Dark Energy mechanism, but doesn't necessarily have to be.

2) The CMB fluctuations indicate a fairly smooth early universe. So part of the interpretation of that is that SMB's likely didn't exist in vast quantities yet. We presume that SMB's would need large fluctuations in the distribution of energy in the early universe to form and that these fluctuations would imprint on the CMB.

So, to have the simplest explanation, we do assume that in the early universe inflation existed, but SMB's didn't. However, it doesn't mean that some of the assumptions listed up there aren't potentially wrong.

Perhaps, some mechanism of early SMB production smoothed the fluctuations of the CMB or reduced their ability to imprint. Or maybe the mechanism that looks like Dark Energy in the early universe (inflation) is different from the one we measure now (Dark Energy expansion).

I don't say these things to be pedantic, but because papers like this make you re-examine what we've taken for granted to be true, even if unproven.. Dark energy doesn't exist. It's just some made-up bandaid that's supposed to make Einstein's theory work right.. It wasn't black holes! It was those dastardly immigants!. That may explain why the night sky is dark.. Vacuum energy is the energy produced and annihilated in any empty space. This was a proven phenomena long ago. It is used by Hawking to explain the decay of black holes through radiation. Unless I'm missing something, which is highly possible, your comment doesn't seem to raise any real issue.. Yes. Just imagine how powerful you are, expanding the universe with your dark energy. Don’t ever tell me you don’t matter.. There’s no scandal, no-one to blame or adore.. She is already calling it "bullshit" on Twitter.. What is “mass” anyway? Don’t forget what Einstein taught us about mass-energy equivalence, E=mc^2 and all that.. Nah that’s the source of that green energy these days. Unfortunately, you basically must be an expert to actually be able to argue about any of this.. I'd be interested to see a study done observing the expansion in regions of space with quasars compared to more mundane black holes. I wonder if the rates of expansion would differ correlated to the activity level of a black hole, or if the expansion would be perfectly constant everywhere. That would be interesting if there's no propagation that would be restricted to *c*, and the whole universe just "knows" how much to expand everything everywhere all at once.. We go full circle. First there was nothing, then there was something, expanding outwards.
The nothing will eventually consume the something and we’ll go back to total nothing. The story will be over and existence will begin again in a new way. Just my speculation.. In Layman’s Terms:

The authors claim that our picture of Black Holes might be wrong. Black Holes might do more than solely compress incoming matter into a singularity. They might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe. 

This causes an expansion of the Universe just like filling up a tub by turning on a faucet.

To show this, the authors measured the growth of Black Holes over time. They determined, to a high-degree of confidence, that the data supports the hypothesis that the amount of matter Black Holes would have needed to grow is proportional to the energy required for the Universe to expand over the same time period. They did this by measuring the growth in the size of Black Holes, then extrapolating the amount of energy it would have taken to grow them at their measured sizes.

Black Holes might not just have a singularity in their core - there might also be an additional mechanism where matter is broken down beyond structure and stuffed into the fabric of the Universe itself. That means that Black Holes would be connected (or coupled) to the Universe through Vacuum Energy.

This hypothesis is very interesting because it resolves a couple of major issues:

1.	It provides an experimentally-testable origin for Dark Energy
2.	It provides a mechanism for how the Vacuum Energy of the Universe hovers at a constant density - even though the Universe is constantly expanding and it should be decreasing.
3.	It resolves the central challenge of Black Holes to General Relativity - namely that at their core is an area of infinite density where the mathematics and physics no longer apply

The equations of General Relativity would now apply to the interior of Black Holes. So GR might be a complete explanation of reality all the way down to the Quantum realm.

It is a very interesting hypothesis and would indeed solve the Dark Energy problem. Most importantly, it provides testable hypotheses. Very very exciting stuff!

NOTE: Layman’s terms necessarily skip some detail and simplify the model. Specifically, I skipped the discussion of how this is related to the growth of Supermassive Black Holes in the Early Universe. Suffice it to say that if we assume Black Holes are connected to the Universe through Vacuum Energy, the rate and magnitude of their growth means they consumed a certain amount of energy - and the amount of that energy is the same order of magnitude as the amount of energy needed to fuel the expansion of the Universe over that same time period. Black Holes are hypothesized to be a significant contributing factor - but not the only factor.

The coupling is much more complex. I simplified that a lot. There is dynamic feedback between the Universe and Black Holes. It’s not one direction. The aggregate growth of the Universe also causes Black Holes to grow.

In the tub analogy, the faucet both raises the level of the water of the tub, and as the tub fills up the faucet gets bigger to keep the relative flow of water similar. I simplified it to a single direction for ease of explanation, but the opposite direction applies too.

For a much more thorough explanation that doesn’t skimp on detail, see [this answer](https://reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1137nph/_/j8pk6wt/?context=1).

EDIT: I did cause some confusion in my language and attempted simplification. I am not trying to say that the authors claim that Black Holes are the only source of Dark Energy in the Universe. The authors say that they are a key cosmological element of Dark Energy - the largest source we know of. There might be other contributing components and they don't try to exclude their existence.. Yeah what I got was, black holes are growing larger than expected, they’re attributing that to something called vacuum energy, and that the black holes are coupled with the Universe and are responsible for the accelerated expansion.. Keep in mind, the claim they make is a huge stretch. They have not actually found evidence of anything, despite the article's title. All they've seen, which in itself would have to be verified, is that black holes seem to grow faster than expected.

From there, in a move not too different from 1. Collect panties, 2. ..., 3. Profit, they stick dark energy in it.

Needless to say, current physics has no support whatsoever for any of this.

I think we will see a new wave of YouTube videos soon, all "explaining" how dark energy "is the stuff of black holes". As if the world needed even more wild unsubstantiated claims.. If you can think of it in accordance with the cosmic expansion explanation that's already been observed with the Hubble Telescope to be proven statement "space expands at all points at all times" and know that swarzechild radii of combining black holes are added together as though adding on a number line.  To disproving that the mass inside black holes is infinitesimally small and allow for rational reasoning to take place and to make logical assumptions like the mass inside black holes will be like that of a neutron star but more orb like. Keeping "space expands at all points at all times" both inside and outside a black hole then like it does inside stars, planets, protons, neutrons everywhere the speed of light is constant (everywhere in the universe, spacetime is flat) try the following thought experiment. Take a cut-section of a black hole through the centre, draw along opposing radius of equal length all points in spacetime in a line so the only points to be interested in are those in a straight line with the diameter line. Now take the halfway point of the diameter (centre) and try that principal "space expands at all points at all times" with for time as being indivisible and as time passes. One moment there are x number of points and in passing time exactly the very next amount of time there are 2x points.. Yep!!!

I really hope this pans out. It's spectacularly elegant and it fits the data beautifully. 

What I'm interested in is how a spatially local BH can contribute to the cc everywhere? Surely this is a hint towards some underlying quantum mechanism. Is that vacuum inherently non-local... something else? This has the potential to be a really exciting time.. >Only thing I'm left not understanding at all: what is the mechanism for black hole growth and how is that dependent on not having a singularity at the center? 

To the best of my ability to tell, the mechanism would be simply that black hole masses aren't conserved over time; the expansion of the universe drives that increase directly, not unlike how expansion causes propagating photons to lose energy because their wavelength increases with the expansion.

I don't know that the result *depends* on not having a singularity at the center, but the more naive black hole solutions both have singularities and don't have this coupling to the universe's scale factor; the paper says ones without that coupling are excluded by their observations.  Meanwhile, less naive solutions without singularities do have that coupling and therefore are consistent with observations.  That's all the paper really says on that subject as far as I see.

>My current understanding is "something something non singularity something grows with the cube of the scale factor because something something vacuum energy"

That I'm afraid can't help you with, haha.  Education is always important, but you have to do the reading/learning for yourself if you want to understand!  :p  Don't worry, if you didn't choose to learn graduate-level astrophysics/cosmology, I don't think it reflects on you poorly as a person or anything!  Nobody can learn everything that's complicated, after all — there's just way too much to know.  :). Yeah they really skipped on all the tasty physics. Basically all the paper boils down of fig (1) showing the correlation between the expansion of the universe and the size (mass) of the black holes. >Building off what you've said (I'll have to check out the paper myself later), if these black holes were to plausibly be an explanation for dark energy though, wouldn't they have to make up roughly 70% of the current cosmological energy density?

Yes, and that is discussed in the paper; the authors do claim that their observations are consistent with that makeup.

>I know from many "primordial black holes as dark matter" papers I've read, black holes are ruled out as DM (which only needs to make up 25% of the energy density) over a very wide range of mass scales.

Yup, as a possible form of dark *matter* they do appear to be ruled out these days.

>I find it difficult to believe BH could make up all of DE when we currently have a hard time using it to explain DM.

Why?  DM and DE are two very different phenomena with very different observational evidence for them.

The authors did give pretty clear reasoning (which I summarized in my post) as to why this extra mass increase from the proposed cosmological coupling would appear to be a roughly constant energy density, and I don't see any obvious flaws in that reasoning (not to say there isn't one, just that I don't see any myself).. Well they mention in the paper that you can make the numbers work if you assume that these large black holes make up dark matter. Those are different to primordial black holes which form earlier during inflation. Although I'm not sure that they're a particularly good candidate for dark matter either.. This is an important point. Dark energy dominates the universe by such a degree that I also doubt primordial / supermassive black holes are its causative mechanism. Even with early inflation, the numbers don't seem to align with observational data.. I'm afraid that isn't really discussed at all in the paper.  At a surface level the result seems to indicate that they should just continually gain mass forever, but that's probably a naive assumption on my own part.. they expand forever and merge until the universe is one giant black hole.  

but yeah idk.. >So is this saying SMBH's were formed by stellar collapse and grew by some internal vacuum energy?

Close, yes — it is saying that SMBHs were likely formed by stellar collapse and grew via this mechanism, and that their interior regions must be dominated by vacuum energy.  I don't know that the vacuum energy of the interior region is necessarily what is responsible though; the paper doesn't appear to say that.

>Wouldn't this suggest we would also be able to find BH"s with intermediate mass that iirc we haven't found yet?

I don't think so, not necessarily.  The paper does say we would expect there to be a population of black holes with masses on the order of 10^(2) solar masses, which is roughly at the bottom of the intermediate mass range and which my understanding is that we *have* found some observationally, but other than that it doesn't say much more, at least not that stood out to me as I read over the paper.. Ha, in that case how about a virtual beer :)  [Cheers!](https://preview.redd.it/wsqihfv5dny71.jpg?auto=webp&s=5618adedca42885a9bcb90783ab238f203a07992). >how do we know that the cosmological expansion is responsible for the fast growth of SMBHs and not the other way around?

Well, it *is* the other way around, too — or at least the *accelerating* rate of expansion is.  Assuming the result of this paper is correct, the time-increasing mass of black holes gravitates like dark energy, and dark energy is responsible for the universe's accelerating rate of expansion.  It would be a bit of a feedback loop — expansion drives black hole growth, and black hole growth drives more rapid expansion in turn.

All that being said, we know with high confidence that the early universe was extremely uniform and that it is very unlikely that supermassive black holes existed just after the big bang.  Also, there is an increasing amount of indirect evidence for a period of extremely rapid expansion *very* early in the universe's history (cosmic inflation).  So, expansion would have had to come first, with supermassive black holes coming later.

Hope that makes sense,. That, I'm afraid, is pretty far outside my wheelhouse. :(  However models of quantum gravity categorically need to agree with general relativity's predictions, at least in the low-energy limit, so I would assume that if this new cosmological coupling mechanism is further confirmed and becomes accepted as a part of the standard cosmological model, existing quantum gravity models will need to also derive this mechanism somehow.. Well, if I read the paper right, the mechanism/extent of coupling depends on the black hole metric being considered, and is sensitive even to what the interior region looks like.  I don't know the details of the more realistic black hole metrics that this paper considers (they are established in other papers referenced by this one) but to the best of my understanding it's basically just a feature of the solution to the Einstein field equations for certain classes of realistic black hole metrics in more realistic de Sitter spacetime.  If there are more details to know than that (and I'm sure there are), I don't know them so I'm afraid I can't share them. :(. Well, is it numerology to make a prediction and then confirm it?  Doesn't sound like numerology to me.. Ha, if only I could.  Honestly just keeping up with comment replies is a challenge.  :p. >So they create more mass than what is absorbed?

I wouldn't say "they" create them, but yes, they would gain mass over time even without absorbing anything.

>Some mechanics of the singularity cause this?

No, this result applies to singularity-free black hole solutions.

>So the universe expands because black hole attribute more mass that they presume is dark matter?

No, this has nothing to do with dark matter.  The additional mass acquired by black holes through this mechanism would gravitate essentially the same way dark *energy* gravitates, essentially being the origin of dark energy and responsible for the same things dark energy is responsible for, such as the accelerating expansion of the universe.

>The reason so much of the universe is dark matter is because from the beginning of the universe black holes have been ingesting mass and spitting out more and the added mass is therefore exponential because the universe creates more mass?

No, again, nothing to do with dark matter at all; dark matter is a completely different phenomenon.  Black holes don't spit anything out, and this mechanism doesn't involve accretion; nothing is exponential.. i scrolled for so long looking for the tl:dr and i couldn’t even bring myself to read that. i think i’m just not meant to know about space. No, the paper doesn't address the information problem at all, and does not suggest that any information could be extracted from black holes.  There is no "dark energy field" with "vibrations" being talked about in the paper or in general.. "Haha black holes go brrrrr". That isn't really explored at all in the paper so I'm hesitant to give an affirmative answer, but as far as I can tell it doesn't have any impact on the ultimate fate of the universe.  The universe would still accelerate in its expansion and expand forever (since nothing about the way dark energy works is changing in this paper, it's just that an explanation for its origin is being given) and eventually reach thermodynamic heat death.  Black holes would presumably grow forever with it rather than eventually disappating due to Hawking radiation, but their growth would always be proportional to the rate of expansion so it's not like they'd ever "catch up" or anything.  Like all other gravitationally-unbound systems they would gradually expand away from everything else forever.

Hope that helps,. >Black holes make the universe grow by converting energy? 

No.  Black holes drive the *accelerating* rate of expansion of the universe.  There is no conversion of energy, black holes just gain energy over time proportional to the universe's scale factor.

>If we could reduce the mass of black holes somehow, the universe would shrink?

No, it would just mean that the universe would continue expanding at a gradually decelerating rate rather than an accelerating rate.. >If we could reduce the mass of black holes somehow, the universe would shrink?

You wouldn't even have to take matter out. The reason the black holes might act like dark energy is that their energy density is constant. This only works if the black hole is dormant, only then will it's energy density remain constant, and even then, will only remain constant if it is in fact coupled to the expansion. If a black hole is actively feeding, it's energy density is increasing, not constant, and thus it will no longer drive accelerated* expansion.

*There would still, however, be regular expansion going on regardless, it just wouldn't be accelerated expansion.. No, the gist is that black holes grow in mass as the universe expands, and this extra mass gain gravitates the same way dark energy would, making it appear that there is a constant energy density across all of space when there actually isn't (though since it effectively is the same from a measurement perspective, we can still treat it that way).. Crappy articles have been the "new" seo advertising vehicle for a long time now. It's simply spread to the academic fields. Doesn't really have a solution when they're searching for clicks and impressions. Yaya click bait.. Which still don't provide good explanations beyond:

"We may or may not have found that black holes grow faster than expected. But this is DEFINITELY related to dark energy, and it's DEFINITELY not caused by anything else, just trust us on this one."

Folks, do not forget this basic fact: the speed of something spreading on social media is not an indication of how accurate or truthful that is, but simply an indication of how sensational it sounds.. The actual paper links to work on non-singular black holes spanning over the last 30 years.

From the paper, as I understand it, the BHs that are not singular are compatible with studying the large scale structure of the universe. They claimed that the data they have is consistent with the growing mass of these non-singular BHs. Then they argue that these BHs act as sources for the current expansion of the universe, because the only way to explain the mass growth is through a cosmological coupling with the expansion rate.

Anyways, that what I understood from it, but I’m far from an expert.. IIRC there's no requirement for a singularity to actually exist at the center of the bh. Recall that the passage of time slows as gravity intensifies, and is stopped completely at the event horizon as it forms (from the perspective of an outside observer). So the interior of the bh is frozen in time the moment the EH forms at the center of the star, meaning there is not and never will be a singularity there. Another way to say this is that models where a singularity exists are working with a hypothetical steady/end state that takes longer than the lifetime of the universe to actually reach.

The only caveat here (again IIRC) is some kind of primordial bh with a singularity that existed before matter condensed gravitationally.. I thought it was a known thing that singularities arent needed, and some blackholes dont have them?. No, the way this is worded is still uninformative and confusing for people who do indeed have a PhD in the specified field, or closely related enough. And why do you assume the previous commenter doesn’t? Modern physics isn’t all a mystic temple cult to everyone in this sub. Or just stop expanding and come to an equilibrium?. I worked in research biology for a few years until I got sick of chasing funding around the country for work. The best part of science to me is always the new questions we get to ask as we begin to understand anything that doesn't fit current models.. That's the best part of science.. Never watched him unfortunately..... Will now try it. Yeah, my bad.. I wrote a much more extensive comment here after actually reading the papers: https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1152dae/can_we_get_theoretical_about_the_black_holedark/j90afrz/

I even snoop through some references and I wasn't able to find how rotation or more specifically the Kerr fit into things. I *think* they were using a lack of formalized Kerr solution with expanding universe boundary conditions to justify looking towards more exotic solutions.

I am gratified that Wald also thought stability of such vacuum bubbles would be a problem. Having a big name like that think the same thing as you is an ego boost lol! Do you have a link to his comments on this?. [deleted]. There’s still a few prominent scientists that challenge the very existence of Dark Energy.. [removed]. >1) Expansion, and more specifically inflation, existed at the beginning of the universe. This is likely the same Dark Energy mechanism, but doesn't necessarily have to be.

My favorite simple model of this is that Dark Energy is just the relic Inflaton field after it's been "spent." A relic of the very early universe come back to haunt us now that the matter and radiation densities have sufficiently diluted.. Dark energy was part of Einstein's findings originally.. I wish we would start talking about actual physics again instead of clickbait made up bullshit. By Penrose's conformal cyclic cosmology, he proposes that once that 'nothing' is reached then the whole thing begins again.. Sounds like the plot line to the Matrix...😳. Noob question here: Wouldn't this mean that the rate of expansion of the Universe would vary depending on the proximity to massive black holes?. Thanks for the explanation.

I really hope this pans out. It's one of those rare ideas that's to beautiful to be wrong.. I noticed you said this solves the problem of the singularity in GR. Can you guess as to whether this conception is also compatible with loop quantum gravity?. This is the most helpful summary I've read yet, thanks! What are the implications of future expansion, will it slow down as black holes run out of matter to consume? Does the rate of expansion vary with what is falling into all the black holes at that moment?. Because all black holes are actually Kerr black holes, that is they're rotating, it's been hypothesized that they don't have singularities, but instead ringularities. 

Singularities seem to be artifacts of idealized black holes with no charge or spin, however the actual geometry beyond the event horizon is still largely up for debate.. Okay, so- i’m only in my first year of physics (though cosmology/dark energy and dark matter are what i primarily want to study later on) so these questions might sound dumb, but:

1) once you get to a small enough level, mass *is* just energy, right? Like elementary are just organised energy. So is it the theory that the black hole is breaking matter down into that energy, and then *turning* that energy into dark matter, rather than simply only adding it to its own density?

2) we havent identified all black holes in the universe- and i thought it was hard for us to even estimate at the number/size of all them because of the existence of dark matter in general- so how did their estimate work? Is it just that the rate of expansion lines up, or is there another factor?

3) you mentioned the way that black holes have cores of ‘infinite density’- could this suggest that they actually contain *no* density, and only incredibly highly compressed energy thats forming the mass once you start to move away from the core?. So if you were sucked into a black hole, you would become the universe in a similar way to how you would become your garden if you were burried there? That's... Comforting :). Fantastic summary!. So is this saying that the universe composition pie charts that show about ~70% of the universe as dark energy, roughly the same amount of energy has been captured by black holes over the life time of the universe?

In hindsight, that an interesting thing to check.. I have a fundamental lack of understanding of the central aspect of this.

I don't understand how energy is conserved in this picture.

If the mass of a blackhole increases, and that same energy equivalent mass can be measured/manifest in the dark energy signature simultaneously, then how is this energy not being double counted? 

IE, black holes are gaining mass but also the universe is expanding at an increasing rate?. Extraordinary. This guy nerds. Wow! I wish I understand astrophysics, it's fascinating! I love people like you taking the time to make it more understandable. Thank you, I feel like my IQ went up a few points reading this.. This actually makes a lot of sense.. Thank you ever so much for taking the time to explain this. This looks very promising. The universe is simply unbelievable sometimes 🤯. So, am I understanding this anywhere near correctly? 

The claim is something like: black holes are eating matter and turning it into more spacetime.. Another noob question, apologies, but this is the dark matter that’s supposedly all around us essentially?. Total layman here:

So based on this hypothesis, dark energy is what is responsible for the ongoing expansion of the universe, a phenomenon which is ultimately driven by matter entering black holes and then being converted to dark energy. The dark energy then 'pours' out of these black holes like water form a tap, driving the expansion of the universe.

If this is the case would we expect to observe the universe expanding in an uneven manner since the force that drives expansion is being generated at unevenly distributed sites?

Or is the analogy too dumbed down and it just doesn't work that way?. The way my mind breaks this down is it feels like black holes are now effectively considered to also be dark white holes.. Mate you did a sterling job with this explanation. Hate to burden you but would you mind explaining vacuum energy in similarly simple terms?. “In laymen’s terms” and I could actually understand it!!! I know fuck all about physics (was *literally* my worst subject in school) so thank you for being so informative. This was a fun read! 😊. Great explanation appreciate you taking the time. Wouldn’t this go well with the simulation theory?  Like the black hole is kind of recycling the information of the universe? Almost like keeping the ram of a computer from peaking?. They claim something but the title says it’s evidence?. Thank you for this. > The equations of General Relativity would now apply to the interior of Black Holes. So GR might be a complete explanation of reality all the way down to the Quantum realm.

Not sure I understand this. GR predicts a singularity, right? So is this some kind of alternative solution within GR that avoids a singularity, or is it something kind of ad-hoc pasted onto GR?. The research findings on the nature of black holes and their relationship to the universe are truly groundbreaking and have significant implications for our understanding of the cosmos. The study's suggestion that black holes are not simply compressing matter into singularities, but also incorporating the energy of incoming matter into the fabric of the universe, provides a compelling new perspective on the workings of these enigmatic objects.

This proposal not only opens up new avenues for further investigation but also offers a testable hypothesis for the origin of dark energy and the mechanisms behind the constant density of vacuum energy in the universe. Moreover, by resolving the central challenge of black holes to General Relativity, namely the infinite density of their core, this hypothesis brings us closer to a complete explanation of the nature of reality that extends all the way down to the quantum realm.

However, as with any scientific finding, it is important to subject these results to scrutiny and validation through further experimentation and observation. The complexity of the relationship between black holes and the universe is a challenge that will require a multidisciplinary approach and collaboration between researchers from different fields.

In conclusion, these research findings are not only fascinating and exciting, but they also demonstrate the power of scientific inquiry and the potential for discovery when we push the boundaries of our understanding of the universe.. Could it be possible that black holes are a consequence of an expanding universe and not really the other way around?. > They might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe.

I don't think this is correct? The paper's main point is that the mass growth of BHs is much more than expected from accreting mass by itself.. [deleted]. They have not found evidence of anything, the article's title is misleading. It could simply be that black holes are growing faster than expected for some yet-unknown reason.

Claiming this is tied into dark energy is a very big stretch, and it has no theoretical support whatsoever in current physics.. Vacuum energy you say? Is that describing a zero point moduuuule? 👀. I think you’ve go this wrong. The black holes are increasing the vacuum energy as they grow. They found two things. One, as you mentioned, super massive black holes (smbh) are growing faster than expected. Two, this growth rate is changing at the same rate that the rate of universal expansion is growing. 

They also put these facts together and see that it looks like the positive energy gained from SMBH growth looks to perfectly ballance the negative energy required for dark energy to accelerate the universe expansion rate. This would mean energy density of the universe is constant, which is good, what with the conservation of energy and all.. > Needless to say, current physics has no support whatsoever for any of this.

The explanations of the papers uses standard GR. Exactly what part is there no support for?. It actually fits the 68% dark energy of the universe, with evidence. NO candidate come remotely close to that.

That's why it is more convincing and hype than any other "theories" out there.. Appreciate the response. I did physics but in an unrelated field. Yes I know that my lack of understanding of black hole mass couplings to the expansion of the universe doesn't reflect negatively on me as a person lol. Just interested in understanding this result a bit better.. > black hole masses aren’t conserved over time; the expansion of the universe drives that increase directly, not unlike how expansion causes propagating photons to lose energy

Two questions about this. My intuition (which may well be incorrect) about the photons is that this is due to conservation of energy: space has expanded so a fixed amount of energy is spread over a larger space, hence the wavelength shift. Is this wrong? Does total energy go down? The fact that BH mass is _increasing_ with expansion, which very much breaks my intuition, makes me wonder. 

Also, earlier when I read your original summary (which was fantastic btw) I was under the impression that BH mass increase was driving expansion, not the other way around. Does one cause the other? Do both cause each other? Is cosmic coupling yet another completely intuition-breaking thing?. How can energy lost from e.g. photons with expansion be transferred to a black hole? It's the fact that a black hole has a specific position in space whereas expansion is non-localized that's confusing me.. Yes, I understand the difference between dark matter and dark energy... I'm saying that if current experiments conclude that black holes cannot make up more than 25% of the cosmological energy density (the necessary amount to be dark matter), they surely cannot be dark energy because that would require them to make up 70% (the necessary amount to be dark energy), and they're already ruled out at densities well below that.. FYI, they don't say anywhere in the paper that these black holes would explain dark matter.  They talk exclusively about dark energy, which is a very different phenomenon.  You're right that this result doesn't pertain to primordial black holes, though.. Per the paper, it wouldn't be just supermassive black holes that contribute to dark energy, it would be *all* black holes, and it seems to me that the paper makes a pretty clear argument for why.  You're saying here that "the numbers don't seem to align with observational data" but as I summarized in my post, the authors are saying very clearly that the final numbers *do* align with the observational data, and that those numbers themselves were based on measurements of black hole population masses.. what does "dominated by vacuum energy" mean exactly? 

how can an interior region of a black hole be dominated by anything...?

excuse the ignorance, just a layperson.. wow, amazing!  thanks.. Wow

"...the time-increasing mass of black holes gravitates like dark energy, and dark energy is responsible for the universe's accelerating rate of expansion. ... expansion drives black hole growth, and black hole growth drives more rapid expansion in turn.". It'll be exciting to see if this drives further development there! Thanks. it depends. proving is stretching the terminology if probabilities are involved. 95% is nothing to write home about. 99.95% and you start to have something. still no expert though.. "I wouldn't say "they" create them, but yes, they would gain mass over time even without absorbing anything."

Wouldnt that violate the law of conservation of Energy? Because the black hole radiates Hawking radiation and by gaining Mass over time wich it didnt absorb there would be more Energy in the universe after it died than there was before?. Does this impact how black holes would evaporate a la Hawking radiation?. [removed]. Cheers yea. I personally prefer the decaying dark energy quintessence theory, as I prefer the thought of a crunch. There was some research in the last few years that suggested this could be possible: https://www.pnas.org/doi/full/10.1073/pnas.2200539119. Thanks for answering, think I will have to wait for someone to put the words into diagrams for me 😂

Right, so they're saying that it's likely dark holes are directly correlated to the size of the universes growth rate, which means dark holes are probzbly the primary source of growth for the universe, because they 'influence' dark energy which pushes/pulls space apart? 

So if all black holes in the universe disappeared from reality tomorrow the universe would stop growing, galaxies would stop moving further from each other, etc, until more stars turned into black holes?. Wow. What’s seo advertising?  I could Google but I like an old friendly convo hee hee. > fields. Doesn't really have a solution when they're searching for clicks and impressions.

It does. Stop clicking and disseminating that bullshit like u/beatnik77 does. He is the enemy in this case.. What about the speed of social in a vacuum?  Sound doesn’t travel in a vacuum so perhaps that filters out the sensationalism leaving pure social to propagate?. > So the interior of the bh is frozen in time the moment the EH forms at the center of the star, meaning there is not and never will be a singularity there.

From the perspective of an outside observer.  That doesn't stop a singularity from forming from an inside-the-black-hole perspective.. Dunno, I only have an undergrad degree and the paper made great sense to me, except for the MaCHO part (I get what they said, I just am pretty sure we have checked for MaCHOs in the 100 solar mass range and not found enough evidence of lensing in galactic halos to justify machos as THE source of dark matter, could be new papers I haven’t read). Their point was that the article was written to be understandable to people *without phds*, who wouldnt understand the actual reason. Not that only people with phds would understand the article. 

The answers given in the article dont make sense as an explanation because they arent meant to, because the average person reading it wont understand the actual explanation. Its just meant to give a pop-y, laymans terms version of ‘hey! We discovered x! Isnt that awesome?’ To inform the general public.. The arrogance on this sub is astonishing. Do you even read? Commenter expects a rigorous explanation from an article that is written for laypeople. The best explanation is found in the paper and required extensive background knowledge, but it is evident that the previous commenter is either unwilling to look at it or unable to understand it. Probably the same for you too.. \*her. By the way, did you have time to read the article and make an opinion? I mean, they make a rather bold claim. He was interviewed for [this Science article](https://www.science.org/content/article/dark-energy-supermassive-black-holes-physicists-spar-over-radical-idea). He doesn't elaborate too much in here unfortunately.. ah ok, thank you :). The observed acceleration is very real. If someone has an alternative explanation, it would have to be robust. No one's super married to the cosmological constant, but it *is* a viable if unsatisfying explanation. And most prominent, serious scientists I know don't really challenge it at all for that reason.. [removed]. [removed]. Yeah, as a fudge factor. I can get with that.. Not a noob question at all. This is a very interesting question. 

As far as we can tell (through measurements), the Vacuum Energy of the Universe doesn’t flow, it inflates everywhere uniformly. It seems to grow while keeping a uniform density - which could be where the analogy of the tub and the faucet breaks down. They key though is that Vacuum Energy might flow like water (not inflate) and we just haven’t measured it yet.

So, we don’t know. Until this paper, we thought that it was just an energetic fabric that underlies everything - even possibly outside of our Universe. If it flows as it grows or develops gradients, it would indeed be turbulent around Black Holes and the rate of expansion should be vary proximate to them. If it doesn’t flow, but sort of inflates everywhere at the same time, then the expansion wouldn’t vary with proximity.

I suspect this will be a topic of very significant discussion and investigation over the coming years.

EDIT: I stand corrected for my poorly defined use. Update "the Universe" to "our Universe" in lieu of discussing the observable vs. cosmological boundaries.. If the cosmological coupling of all black hole takes up to 68% of energy which is dark energy, then yes the expansion of universe correlates with black holes.. haha damn wrote thi exact question but more long windedly before reading your comment. >rate of expansion of the Universe would vary depending on the proximity to massive black holes?

Yes and no, there is no expansion close to black holes, galaxies and galaxy clusters because the distances are too small. The repulsive effect of each individual black hole is extremely miniscule, far far smaller than the effect of their gravity. It is only the sum total of all the black holes acting over cosmological distances (hundreds of millions of light years) in which the repulsive nature can be observed. So it's the opposite of what you said, the repulsive force of black holes gets stronger with distance and time. Your question is actually not noob at all, it's a really interesting one! The answer is that the expansion of the universe is indeed affected by the presence of massive black holes and other structures, but the effect is relatively small compared to the overall expansion of the universe. In fact, the expansion of the universe is driven by a mysterious form of energy known as dark energy, which dominates over the effects of gravity from massive objects like black holes.

That being said, the presence of massive structures like black holes can cause local distortions in the fabric of space-time, which can in turn affect the motion of nearby objects. This effect is known as gravitational lensing and has been observed in many astronomical surveys. However, these distortions do not significantly affect the overall expansion of the universe, which is driven by the much larger and more pervasive effects of dark energy.

So in short, while black holes can indeed affect the expansion of the universe in a local sense, their influence is relatively small compared to the overall expansion driven by dark energy. Nonetheless, the study of the interactions between black holes and the cosmic expansion is an active area of research in cosmology, and there is still much to learn about the complex interplay between these two fundamental aspects of our universe.. Happy my degree was finally useful! 

It is very very interesting. It provides a dead-simple explanation for Dark Energy, the growth of Supermassive Black Holes, and a solution for GR and black holes.

[This answer](https://reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1137nph/_/j8pk6wt/?context=1) is much more accurate than mine, but it’s also much more technical.. The universe doesn't care at all about your feelings. Things are either true, or they are not. How you feel about them is irrelevant.

This paper makes extreme claims, that are far removed from current science.. That’s a good question. I suspect it is indeed compatible - since Quantum Loop Gravity itself is compatible with Zero-Point Energy. But, that is just a guess and really needs some rigor behind an answer either way.. These are really good questions. 

If the expansion is primarily driven by the consumption and reincorporation of matter into Vacuum Energy, then it should stop as matter runs out. But, if there are other ways of adding Vacuum Energy - like if the Universe is expanding into it - then, it might just slow down as Black Holes run out of things to consume.

According to this theory, the overall rate of expansion should vary depending on what falls into the Black Holes. But these Black Holes are so numerous and so tiny relative to the size of the Universe, any one single Black Hole probably wouldn’t have a measurable impact on the overall rate.

But, these are just educated guesses. Prior to this paper coming out, we thought Vacuum Energy simply permeated our Universe - and possibly extended outside of it. This paper hypothesizes that it doesn’t just permeate our Universe, it is the thing that is growing and pushing all matter apart. 

A whole new field of cosmology opens up if this hypothesis is correct. An entire new generation of measurements, experiments, and technology will be spawned to investigate this perspective. So, hopefully, we will conduct enough experiments to accurately answer your questions in the coming decades.. Let me preface this with the understanding that my grad research was in Space Systems Engineering, but not directly in Cosmology or Astrophysics. My university focused on the engineering aspects, but we did a significant amount of work in those areas for some of our satellite and rover missions, so I have a few years of applying it functionally. I’ll be slightly more technical with you here.

Let’s briefly summarize the actual content of these two papers. These two papers are primarily data analyses that examine the idea that the growth of Black Holes (BHs) and the expansion of the Universe are coupled. As each grows and expands, they influence the other. The observed effect is that Supermassive Black Holes (SMBHs) in elliptical galaxies that have limited their capability to make new stars have grown between 8x - 20x larger than our calculations suggest they should. The authors found that with 99.98% certainty, that BHs are not uncoupled (very important point, coupling factor k > 0). In their paper “Observational Evidence for Cosmological Coupling of Black Holes and its Implications for an Astrophysical Source of Dark Energy” they show that this behavior should be expected in BHs that contain Vacuum Energy and that if BHs contain this Vacuum Energy they also exert a type of pressure back into the Universe that we would identify as Dark Energy. So, let’s talk about how this relates to your questions.

1.	Yep - according to Special Relativity. Mass and energy are related to each other through c^2. These two quantities are the same thing. Mass is energy and vice versa. The theory here is that BHs don’t simply compress matter into a single point of infinite density, they convert it into Vacuum Energy. That’s not the same as converting it into matter. Matter is ordered and has structure. Whatever would be inside of these BHs lack that, so the energy density is spread out, rather than concentrated in a single point. That means we can have some unimaginable densities in a BH, but those are still less than the infinite density in a singularity. 

To be a bit more specific, all BH’s have spin and charge (known as Kerr Black Holes), so the singularities would be known as “ringularities”. But, that distinction just adds unnecessary complexity for this answer. The important point is that the matter that is hypothesized to be inside of these BHs doesn’t have that ordered structure structure and it doesn’t (necessarily) form a point of infinite density and break General Relativity. So, there are no real infinities in our Universe and our frameworks like GR become applicable from the scale of the Universe down to the scale of the quantum.

2.	Yep. We won’t ever be able to identify all of the BHs in the Universe, and there is still a lot of debate about how small they can actually be. There is some hypotheses that BHs might exist that are elementary particle sized - like as small as a proton. The authors focus on measuring elliptical galaxies that they can age by measuring their redshift - most of which have SMBHs at their center. They build on the work of other teams that developed high-confidence estimates of the prevalence of these galaxies (using enormous datasets like the Sloan Digital Sky Survey) and the relative proportions of matter throughout the Universe. They have an estimate for the number of galaxies in the cosmological boundary of the Universe, the relative proportion and age distribution of elliptical galaxies compared to other types, and the relative proportion of baryonic and dark matter in the Universe, so they can extrapolated the effect based on their sample of galaxies. So, you are right that they didn’t estimate every BH in the Universe (since that would be unknowable), they extrapolated based on measured data and other researchers’ published estimates.

The amount of energy required for the expansion of the Universe is a pretty straight-forward calculation. At a minimum, it is the amount of energy it would take to expand at a certain rate while keeping the Vacuum Energy density constant. There are different ways of calculating this term and measuring it, but that idea is the foundation of the expansion. There is a lot of uncertainty because we don’t know so many things about the expansion process. But, yes, the estimates for the expansion line up.

3.	Given the caveat above about Kerr Black Holes, if the BHs contain matter, then the structure would cause it to have an infinite density. In 1948 Kustaanheimo & Qvist showed that there exists a class of solutions to Einstein’s Field Equations for BHs for a shear-free perfect fluid with spatially homogeneous energy density - and in 1993 Nolan showed that this class of solutions has a non-singular interior and that these would be coupled to cosmological expansion. So, in the event that the matter is broken down beyond structure to the point where it meets the criteria of Kustaanheimo, the matter inside of a BH would be a perfect fluid and wouldn’t need a singularity. It is not that there is no density, it’s that the density, however large, is distributed and wouldn’t be infinite.

This is, of course, just a model of a BH and a particular solution to Einstein’s Field Equations - but the exciting part is that the current work in this post provide observations that fit this particular model of BHs.

None of these questions are dumb. They’re very good and you should keep asking as many as you have. I’m sure there are actual professionals in this area here on Reddit, and someone can answer them for you if I can’t. Hi. Yeah. I like that idea too. If Roger Penrose's Conformal Cosmology is correct, we'll eventually start the cycle over again - an infinite number of times. So we'll eventually be back to where we are.. That may have been poorly worded when I tried to simplify.

Black Holes didn't actually accrete all of this mass from baryonic or dark matter - not in any way that we understand anyhow. Supermassive Black Holes at the center of elliptical galaxies show 7x - 20x more growth than we would expect over time. But, we can measure how much mass and energy they would have to contain in their growth - and that amount is proportional to the growth of the Universe. That's what it means that they are "cosmologically coupled".

The authors suggest that BHs both grow with the expansion of the Universe and are a cosmological source of Dark Energy. In aggregate, across all Black Holes, the amount of energy they enclose is on the same order of magnitude as the energy required for the Universe's expansion at constant Vacuum Energy density.

This doesn't imply that they are the only source of Dark Energy though. Just that they are a key cosmological element of it.

Thank you for highlighting the crudeness of my language. I made some edits to try to clarify a bit.. I actually was caught up on the same thing. This theory started to make sense when I understood the relative differences in energy-density. I could be wrong, but here is my understanding:

The key amount energy required for expansion is at least the amount of energy necessary to keep the Vacuum Energy density constant. A massive object contains many many orders of magnitude more energy than a similarly sized enclosure of Vacuum Energy. So, Black Holes must enclose even more orders of magnitude more Vacuum Energy than the surrounding space. This difference could explain how space can grow and how BHs can also grow.

If this is correct, BH's must essentially collect mass, concentrate Vacuum Energy, and somehow contribute a portion of it back to the background energy of the Universe at some rate.

One major problem is that the only well-known mechanism for Black Holes to contribute anything back to regular space is through Hawking Radiation. But, theories like this might encourage us to dig deeper for other mechanisms - or disprove their existence.. Energy isn't conserved, energy density is. That's where your confusion lies. So when the black hole gains mass from vacuum energy, the universe has grown in size proportional to the increase in mass of the black hole, so they cancel out, and the energy density remains constant. If the black hole didn't gain mass in proportion to the expansion, then it would lose energy density in aggregate as they are diluted by the ever increasing volume of the universe.. That is correct but incomplete.

BHs are cosmologically coupled to the Universe - meaning that as the Universe grows, BHs grow. But each one has 3 possible states for how they contribute to the coupling - each can grow, hold constant, or shrink. In my explanation, I really only talked about one of those 6 potential combinations - but there are others and they are more complex.

So, yes with a caveat that the full system is much more complex.. Not a noob question. Dark Matter is hypothesized to exert a pulling force, where as Dark Energy pushes.

Imagine that a galaxy is a boat that is bound together with Dark Matter. Then Dark Energy is the ocean current that pushes all of the boats.. Wouldn't it also mean that expansion stops or even reverses once the last black holes have evaporated and no more matter is transformed?. The answer is maybe. The simplest form of this coupled system goes six directions. Each component can grow, stay constant, or shrink. Since the system is coupled, we have to consider all possibilities (assuming that nothing exotic happens like energy escaping into other dimensions).

I think maybe a hole in a bucket of water draining into a lake is a better analogy. A single bucket has a small and maybe measurable impact, but a trillion buckets can be a raging torrent.

To answer your question directly, we don’t know. We know that the Universe grows in such a way that the Vacuum Energy density is constant. But we don’t have great ways to measure it, and there are competing definitions about how much is even there. 

But, it seems to act like a perfect sheer-free fluid - and those balance out the force applied to them extremely fast. We can absolutely detect pressure waves in those though. So, I’m going to guess “yes” and it might be possible to detect (or disprove) at some point in the future once we agree on definitions.. >expansion of the universe, a phenomenon which is ultimately driven by matter entering black holes and then being converted to dark energy.

The universe is already expanding without dark energy, dark energy didn't show up until late in our universe (about 7 billion years after expansion started), and it's responsible for speeding up the expansion.

Also, we have absolutely no clue what is happening to the matter that goes into the black hole, it might still be there, this research doesn't attempt to explain what happens to that matter at all, it proposes one explanation that fits the data, but it's really hypothetical.

If the hypothesis is right, the black holes are growing and feeding off the expansion of the universe itself (not the matter falling in), the bigger the universe grows, the bigger the black hole grows, even if no matter falls in. The black holes then continue to drive the expansion further. No matter necessary, and infalling matter may actually slow the expansion because the infalling matter is changing the energy density faster than the universe can expand, and so its energy density is no longer constant. In reality, no amount of matter thrown into any black hole will ever halt expansion.. Thank you! I will do my best. Oddly enough, there is a lot of debate about the origin and nature of vacuum energy. So, keep that in mind. 

Vacuum energy (also known as zero-point energy, or “background energy”) is an energy that exists everywhere throughout the entire Universe in the background. When we take things to their minimums, we are puzzled to see that it is never enough. 

Atoms in a vacuum and cooled down to billionths of a degree from absolute zero still vibrate. Parallel metal plates that are sealed, shielded, and stuck into a vacuum chamber pull towards each other. Particle detectors that are stored within the most empty and most heavily shielded locations we can build still occasionally detect particles that seem to come from inside the detection chamber itself. It’s like if you were driving your car and slammed on your brakes - only to find that the road underneath your car was still moving.

That’s just experimentally we have also rediscovered this energy many independent times theoretically. 

Einstein’s Cosmological Constant
Quantum Mechanics’ Ground Energy State
Astrophysics’ Vacuum Energy
Quantum Field Theory’s Lowest Energy Field State (for all of the various fields)
Particle Physics’ Virtual Particle Pairs
(There are others. This is just an illustration of the repeated discovery theoretically.)

Many of our most useful frameworks of understanding reality all come to the conclusion that there lowest possible energy state is small but never 0.

What does this mean practically? It means that all space lies in some sort of fabric of energy. 

How much energy? We have conflicting answers that range from not much all the way to enough to boil all of the oceans in the world with about a lightbulb’s worth.

Measurements from the Casimir Effect suggest somewhere that vacuum energy has a density of around 10^-9J/m^3.

However… calculations using Planck values suggest it has a density of around 10^113J/m^3.

So there is a discrepancy of more than 120 orders of magnitude. This is called the cosmological constant problem and there are some pretty big implications for which it is. 

Practically, we have to deal with the smaller of the two on a day-to-day basis and in our experiments. When we’re talking about vacuum energy in this post, we’re also referring to the smaller of the two. But, there is also the possibility that we are sitting in a false vacuum state on top of a vast vast ocean of energy.

NOTE: As always, if anyone is reading this and finds a mistake or misstatement, please let me know. I try my best to simplify this material, and sometimes that leads to an incorrect picture or statement. Let me know and I’ll fix it. I want this to be a good resource.. Hah! Yep. It would. I was thinking the same thing. 

Interestingly enough, BHs can be analyzed with an Information Theory approach. Many of the answers come out the same, but it uses the information content of an object rather than its mass or other matter-related properties. That’s one of the key ideas in the Holographic Principle.. Yeah. That’s the inaccuracy of science journalism. It is evidence that supports their particular theory, but that does not imply that theory is true. It is just a theory that has good explanations for otherwise difficult problems.. The field equations of GR say that in order to maintain a positive mass, matter that is exposed to gravitational forces that are stronger than matters structural repulsive force has to compress. But, since no known force is strong enough for the matter to balance the inward pressure, it simply compresses into a point of infinite density - or a space-like singularity.

However, in 1948 two mathematicians named Kustaanheimo & Qvist showed that an alternative solution to GR’s field equations in the interior of a BH is one where matter forms a sort of perfect fluid. That is a fluid that is perfectly free to flow with no shear effects. Fluids have a completely different mechanism for distributing pressure and don’t necessarily compress to become infinitely dense. This solution would satisfy GR and avoid a space-like singularity inside of a BH.

In 1993, Nolan showed that the perfect fluid in the interior of the BH could be a form of Vacuum Energy. The authors of these two papers here tested Nolan’s model against their data and found that it fits their measurements and would predict the evolution of SMBHs in elliptical galaxies. An unsolved problem up to this point.

So, since Nolan’s model is a solution the GR field equations, this should also be considered experimental evidence for Kustaanheimo & Qvists BHs with a non-singular fluid core.. Well said! 🙌. The specific claim of the paper is that BHs are coupled to the expansion of the universe, so it is possible. The authors examine that as one of the factors. But the amount of mass they’d need to accrue for them to grow at their measured rate is many many orders of magnitude larger than expansion should generate. So, this factor is assumed to be a non-dominant factor.. This is the relation I talked about simplifying in my note. This is only 1/2 of the story.

There are two papers that establish two separate claims. The first one is the energy equivalence between Dark Energy and the calculated growth in the size of Black Holes (which establishes the statement in your quote). The second paper discusses how SMBH’s are 7x - 20x larger than they should be if they simply accreted mass, so they have to also grow with the expansion of the Universe.

My statement isn’t fully true since it’s a coupled system. It is only 1/2 of the story. But that 1/2 was easier to simply for a Layman’s explanation. 

My thought is that getting into coupled systems is much more difficult for readers without formal training. Dynamic coupled systems are a difficult concept to understand even with formal training.. Apparently due to the vacuum energy, whatever that is. The article doesn't explain vacuum energy at all to me.. The way I’m trying to conceptually understand it is essentially a bigger black hole generates more dark energy which then pushes the outer limits of the universe faster. I don’t know if that’s just wrong but I’ve found these articles don’t seem to be written by someone that knows what’s going on or does know but can’t put it into words regular joes understand. It’s like an abusive boyfriend isolating it’s neighborhood from the rest of the universe. Essentially the blackholes nearest us are pushing the rest of the universe away from us. 

The implication of this would be that the universe might end with everything getting sucked into a blackhole, and tunneling down into a singularity. The exact reverse of how it all started.. [removed]. Equilibrium for total density? Idk I’m talking out of my ass. The second author has built his career on the idea. I remember him smugly asserting that astronomers would stop using the word black holes and start using his acronym because his thesis is so revolutionary (he said this during his defense). He also bragged about not knowing quantum mechanics and not needing to because his differential equation ignoring baryon conservation fit within observational bounds.

That said I'm sure they did their due statistics or this wouldnt have been published. But it's ultimately saying "we fit black hole mass to scale factor and they are correlated". Makes for a less grandiose title.. It kinda makes sense because large amount of matter makes space expand that would also make sense that is what would cause space to be expanding in all areas.. Shut up Rodney, we will NOT be blowing up any solar systems today!. I'm waiting for my zero-point energy field manipulator so i can chuck some explosive barrels at the trans-human interdimentional cops.. No. > This would mean energy density of the universe is constant, which is good, what with the conservation of energy and all.

Total energy is only conserved in time invariant systems, which the universe as a whole is not.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noether%27s_theorem. >My intuition (which may well be incorrect) about the photons is that this is due to conservation of energy: space has expanded so a fixed amount of energy is spread over a larger space, hence the wavelength shift. Is this wrong? Does total energy go down?

Yes, I am afraid you are mistaken here.  The total energy does go down.

If you were talking about just ordinary matter, a doubling in the scale factor results in a 2^(3) = 8-fold decrease in the density of matter.  This is of course a geometric result, since each of the 3 dimensions of space double in volume while the matter content remains the same, thus the density decreases for each axis and this decrease is multiplicative.

However, photons *additionally* have their wavelengths stretched out (known as cosmological redshift), which corresponds to a decrease in frequency and decrease in energy on a per-photon basis.  So not only does the *number* density of photons decrease by a factor of 2^(3) = 8 for a doubling in the scale factor, but *additionally* the wavelength doubles (and frequency/energy halves).  And so the total energy decrease is actually by a factor of 2^(4) = 16.

This more-rapid decrease in the energy density of radiation is what resulted in the universe [transitioning from a radiation-dominated era to a matter-dominated era](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scale_factor_%28cosmology%29#Radiation-dominated_era) in the early universe.

>The fact that BH mass is increasing with expansion, which very much breaks my intuition, makes me wonder.

You might compare this to current models of dark energy as a cosmological constant.  The cosmological constant is typically interpreted as an energy density associated with having empty space, and it remains constant over time.  If you double the scale factor, any given bounded region of space also increases in volume by a factor of 2^(3) = 8.  Yet if the density is remaining constant and the volume is increasing, that means the total energy must increase as well.  So as the universe expands, there is more total dark energy in any given expanding region.  This should make sense intuitively:  if empty space comes with energy, and you get more empty space over time, you should also get more energy!

Given that this paper proposes that cosmologically-coupled black holes are the origin of dark energy, it should come as no surprise then that black holes must gain in mass at an appropriate rate to match the observed constancy in dark energy density. :)  What's really neat about this paper is that it gets the correct rate of mass gain for black holes from *observations* and not from theory.  That makes it really interesting and impressive IMO.

>Also, earlier when I read your original summary (which was fantastic btw) I was under the impression that BH mass increase was driving expansion, not the other way around. Does one cause the other? Do both cause each other?

To the best of my understanding, it does appear that each causes the other!  The fact that the universe was initially expanding from the big bang would have driven black holes even in the early universe to grow in mass, and even though expansion slowed down over time, space was still expanding and black hole masses would have been still increasing.  That increase then contributes an approximately constant energy density (dark energy), which in turn further drives the rate of expansion of the universe to accelerate again.  Eventually the universe reached a critical point where the slowing expansion began increasing as a sort of rolling consequence of this cosmological coupling that the paper talks about.

>Is cosmic coupling yet another completely intuition-breaking thing?

Well, I dunno about that, it seems somewhat intuitive to me, but one might need an atypical amount of education in physics and cosmology to build the appropriate intuition. :p. My layman take: BH size directly correlates to its mass, so a mechanism that makes it grow, has to increase its mass as well. Since the mass and energy outside of the BH doesn't change, it means that the black hole "owes" the universe some negative energy and that is realized through expansion?. It's not "transferred to a black hole," these are fully independent gains and losses of energy that are not related to each other, and they are not numerically equal either.  If you double the scale factor of the universe, the energy of radiation is halved but dark energy increases by a factor of 8.  (Edit: and there's currently *way* more dark energy than there is radiation, too.)

So to be clear, it is *not* the case that black holes somehow gain the energy lost by radiation; these effects aren't related to each other (except insofar as they are both consequences of the universe not possessing time-translation symmetry and thus not conserving energy per Noether's theorem).. You really should read the paper then, or maybe my post summarizing it again.  It's clear that the paper states the cosmological coupling can explain the full 68% attributed to dark energy, and to say it again clearly:  they present *empirical evidence* for this in the paper, and explain very straightforwardly in section 3.1 why the amount of mass gained from the coupling gravitates as dark energy and not as if it were either baryonic or dark matter.  Experiments aimed at determining the baryonic or dark matter densities would not detect any additional gravitational signatures due to the coupling, so I am not sure why you would expect them to given the explanation in the paper.. That's because those studies never accounted for black holes having a constant energy density. They always assumed that black holes lose energy density the same way regular matter does, and so, they will always get an answer that is on the order of regular matter.. They mention that these could be MACHO's located in galactic halos, which makes them candidates for dark matter.

Edit: In appendix B of the observational paper to be precise.. I was agreeing with /u/physicswizard's point above, which seems others here also support. This is just one paper of many that have been published in the last decade or so. I understand the authors' are confident their interpretation of the data work for their particular model, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's correct.

Even if the mechanism encompassed all black holes, 40 quintillion in this case, they still only account for 1% of the total mass in the universe which is still well below the 68% threshold of dark energy accounted for by modern predictions.

An alternative reason for the high rate of supermassive black hole growth in the early universe may come from supermassive stars seeding their creation as they draw in hydrogen or helium at a rate of about 0.1 solar masses per year. For cosmologists and astrophysicists this is known as the Eddington limit.

Another recent idea proposed back in July suggests that ultramassive streams of gas could collide at central regions of dark matter filaments in the early universe. This gas could increase to high densities in small volumes or about 100,000 solar masses in one particular location undergoing gravitational collapse.

These ideas seem more plausible, considering we have a better understanding of accretion or even direct collapse than we do of dark energy. They also don't invoke an elimination of singularities or ringularities in rotating black holes.. "Dominated by" in this context simply means that the largest contributor to the energy density of the interior region is vacuum energy.  So, out of all the energy within the interior region, more of it must come from vacuum energy than from any other source, such as matter or radiation.

So to give an example of this usage, measurements of our observational universe's energy density suggest that ~5% of its energy density comes from baryonic matter, ~27% comes from dark matter, ~68% comes from dark energy, and a tiny fraction of a percent comes from electromagnetic radiation.  In that case, we would say that our observable universe is "dominated by dark energy" because dark energy is the dominant (largest) contributor to the total energy density.

Hope that clarifies!. Well, nobody said anything about proving, so we're good there.  And as I quoted in my original post, the result in the paper is at 3.9-sigma, corresponding to a 99.98% probability that the measured result isn't due to a chance statistical fluctuation.. >Wouldnt that violate the law of conservation of Energy?

My understanding is yes, it would.  This isn't exactly a problem since it's already an established result that in general relativity, an expanding universe already doesn't conserve energy as a consequence of Noether's theorem, which shows that energy is only conserved when a system possesses time-translation symmetry, and an expanding universe does not.  Two prominent examples of this are the loss of energy in electromagnetic radiation as the universe expands (since the wavelengths of EM waves are increasing as they propagate, they become redshifted) and dark energy (which remains at a constant density; if you have more volume with a constant density then that means you must have more energy as well).  So in this case, with dark energy already being a known/expected violation, nothing is actually any different in this scenario as far as I can tell.

>Because the black hole radiates Hawking radiation and by gaining Mass over time wich it didnt absorb there would be more Energy in the universe after it died than there was before?

Well, the paper doesn't really explore the ramifications of this result on Hawking radiation or black hole evaporation, but at a surface level it seems to suggest that natural black holes should continually increase in energy over time, likely by more than they would lose due to Hawking radiation — larger black holes would already radiate slower than small ones.  However I don't think the exact figures/impact are clear.  I expect that there are more calculations that would need to be done for Hawking radiation to see if and how it changes at all.. I'm not 100% sure, it isn't really discussed in the papers as far as I can tell, but I believe it would have an impact, yes!. >Wow... so if I understand this right, the expansion of the universe is so uniform that it even occurs beyond the event horizon of black holes?

That is not what is suggested by the paper, no.

It's worth mentioning out that the universe is expanding on large scale, but not on small scales — check out [this r/AskScience FAQ answer](https://www.reddit.com/r/sciencefaqs/comments/135cd1/does_gravity_stretch_forever_is_the_big_bang_like/) for more explanation on why that is the case.

The rest of your questions seem to be ... well, maybe the product of the wine you say you had, let's leave it at that. :). Ehhh, that paper describes a very unusual model of dark energy where not only is dark energy not constant, but it decreases with time in a way that eventually causes it to pass zero and become negative.  That would be an extremely unexpected scenario, and there is no evidence to suggest that dark energy density has changed from a constant value over the entire history of the universe (indeed, if the paper this thread is about is correct, it would not have changed and would remain constant — and the paper is presenting empirical evidence that this is the case; if this work is truly correct, that would immediately rule out the paper you linked to as a possibility).

The way things are now, with the evidence we currently have, I'm afraid to tell you that the big crunch hypothesis is widely considered to be ruled out to a high degree of confidence.. >Right, so they're saying that it's likely dark holes are directly correlated to the size of the universes growth rate, which means dark holes are probzbly the primary source of growth for the universe, because they 'influence' dark energy which pushes/pulls space apart?

Eh, the phrasing is kind of wrong, but more or less.  The mass gained by black holes due to the expansion of the universe would be the largest contributor to its overall energy density (about 68%).  It wouldn't "influence" dark energy, rather it would *be* dark energy.  Being dark energy, then, means it would cause the rate of expansion to accelerate over time, just like the current standard model of dark energy.

>So if all black holes in the universe disappeared from reality tomorrow the universe would stop growing, galaxies would stop moving further from each other, etc, until more stars turned into black holes?

No, dark energy drives the rate of expansion to *accelerate*, but the universe would still be expanding on its own forever even without it; it would just slowly decelerate over time, asymptotically tending toward a smaller positive value.. Search engine optimization. You fill your article with click bait, key words, and links that google algorithms will pick up. Coherence doesn't always matter. We then use that article as a vehicle for adverts or some other monetization scheme. 

Good articles will add value to the papers they refererence by explaining things in layman's terms properly and invoking curiosity and lead people to dive further. We trade that for clicks. Fair trade.

Bad articles don't care, it's click bait word vomit and sometimes they don't even link the papers! Often they're even just links to other clickbait articles. Nothing of value generated except clicks for advertisers. And no actual value to readers. Bad trade.. But sometimes they're actually halfway decent lol. I have to click on it. Hard agree on not sharing bullshit though.. Oh the misery, everybody wants to be my Enemyyyyyyy. The perspective of the observer inside the BH is irrelevant. They would observe a literally infinite amount of time pass by outside the BH before the singularity would form. It never actually happens because of this infinity.

The perspective if the observer *outside* the BH is what's relevant and testable. To any observer who could possibly exist in this universe outside of that EH, the singularity has not yet formed, only the EH.

As I said,

> Another way to say this is that models where a singularity exists are working with a hypothetical steady/end state that takes longer than the lifetime of the universe to actually reach.. Physics kinda breaks there, there is no inside the black hole perspective. Space/time ceases to be space/time. I.e time totally stops. Our math and models just don’t work inside the event horizon. 

If they did, such an observer would observe infinite time dilation. Meaning the black hole forms and evaporates in the same instant.. Oh I’m not referring to the paper, but the awful pop article purporting to summarise it. The first commenter was right to find it confusing. I understand what popular articles aim to be. And no, I’ve had to write a couple of such articles, and explain things from my research through to a number of general results to students and non-STEM people in general many times, and there are good and bad ways to do it, with a balance of simplicity and accuracy. This achieved neither.. Okayy, 👍. Yeah, I did do a bit more reading into it. They have two publications on this project: The first is observation based. I don't see any issues with this one. It really seems like SMBHs are growing in mass far more quickly than otherwise thought and that increase seems to be directly tied to cosmological redshift z-factor. Normal accretion of matter might also be insufficient to explain such a rapid growth in late universe times. I'd like to see other groups corroborate this with their own analyses though.

The second bit is more controversial since they're now diving into theory. They propose that if stellar deaths (especially of the early population III stars and SMBH originators) result in not traditional black holes, but "vacuum bubble" black holes, they call GEODEs, then if they were homogenously spread out in the universe, they'd appear as dark energy in the Friedmann equations on average. That such "vacuum bubble" black holes blueshift in mass thus their overall energy density in the universe remains constant even as the universe expands is pretty compelling, and that their analysis predicts something like Omega_Lambda ~ 0.68 definitely turns my head. I'd like a second opinion on that calculation though because that is most of the energy content of the universe packed into these things.

But this vacuum bubble black hole picture is a big ask and ultimately the linchpin of the idea. GR allows for all kinds of weird solutions, but many or most aren't physical. A good example is wormholes. The full Schwarzschild black hole solution has an Einstein-Rosen bridge wormhole. Pretty cool right? But if you take a cloud of dust (or matter in general) and collapse it, you don't get the wormhole, but you do get the normal black hole part out of it. There are no reason normal GR processes would produce such strange black holes from normal matter collapse. You'd need something else in your theory, GR + something else. It can't be too different from GR though since you're using GR in the first place to describe these objects.

These vacuum black holes are sort of "constructed" objects. They're stitching together two spacetimes (which is perfectly fine, the Earth or any star is described in such a way): an internal de Sitter spacetime inside and a normal Schwarzschild solution outside. There's a boundary condition which then ties them together. I'd need to do more reading, but my first instinct is upon seeing such a spacetime is (a) Is this thing even stable? Or would it just fall apart? and (b) How on Earth would you make the thing?

Lastly, this idea doesn't *quite* fully explains Dark Energy as you'd hope. Rather than the entire universe being filled with Dark Energy, you have these bounded regions that have it instead. That still leaves a big question on why such a vacuum energy is around in the first place. Regular black holes (assuming that solution is still meaningful in this context) don't have such an energy. The mystery is buried down by one level.. Thought up another thing: Fun consequence of this idea is that the very late universe's fate seems pretty weird in this situation. The homogeneity condition that allows us to take this "dust" of vacuum bubbles and treat it like a cosmological constant kinda breaks down once the universe gets REALLY old. The universe is then dominated by these humongous vacuum bubbles surrounded by nothing but empty space which is itself is actually truly empty. This would *not* be a de Sitter-like universe which is what normal Lambda-CDM predicts the universe to evolve into..  I was actually thinking Dark Matter, but in doing so “Dark Energy” becomes less “Dark”. You may find this interesting, heard about his theory more than a decade ago: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=oQ0Cr0hxN40. [removed]. [removed]. This whole conversation is an interesting take on black holes that has never occurred to me before. 

It makes sense tho. We all knew the singularity probably couldn't actually exist. There has to be *something* else going on in there besides a point of infinite curviture. Because if we truly live in a universe where infinity is a thing, that's a whole different monster.. Something about that explanation makes me think of a comparison to a type on innate potential energy… I haven’t read through everything so I have no idea if that’s an appropriate comparison or not… but could it be like a form of energy/matter transformation that embeds energy into the fabric of the universe? I feel like that could lead to predictions about some type of cyclical big bang process where once enough matter is transformed via black holes (and potentially other processes), then the vacuum potential energy could be high enough to create another big bang event? Idk if this is crazy talk or already the direction they’re going in… I just enjoy being part of a conversation about it. Hmm. If their energy were to contribute to the expansion uniformly, wouldn’t that energy need to be propagated at a massively greater speed than c, or am I seeing it wrong. > even possibly outside of the Universe

what do you mean by outside of the Universe?. Wouldn’t this be where “dark flow” might be relevant and explainable?. So if matter is compressible into space, does that mean that the process is reversible? That through some process we could take space and create matter? That could have some interesting properties, like imagine if you could create an engine of sorts that compressed space in front of it and converted it into matter then took that matter and used it for propulsion. My experience is more in the quantum side of things so my understanding of relativistic physics is a bit generalized (no pun intended) but if this is how the process works I don't see why this would not be possible. Perhaps this is better territory for the science fiction writers to explore.. Definite layperson here, but, does this hypothesis explain why the force behind expansion isn’t dampened by the gravitationally bound system surrounding the black holes?  I.e. why does dark energy seemingly become “unleashed” the further away from a black hole it becomes?  Or is it that the gravitational forces inside of a galaxy simply overpower the dark energy locally to significantly reduce the rate of expansion inside with no net effect on the underlying field propagating the dark energy?. i might be a complete moron teenager on the internet, but this has to be related to time dilation when you're near black holes and the like.. Dead-simple is nice. But what would be even nicer would be if it was correct.

The claims made in the paper are strange at best. The authors seem given to making fringe statements.. Don't forget, it also naturally explains the relatively late arrival of dark energy in our universe.. They have evidence, not "claims".. Had a Stargate Atlantis moment then. I’m very much just an armchair physicist but this is so very exciting and sounds like it is surely Nobel prize worthy if verified? Maybe a silly question, but does it make sense, following this discovery, to investigate a connection between Dark *Matter* and Vacuum Energy too? Or are they connected simply by name?. >According to this theory, the overall rate of expansion should vary depending on what falls into the Black Holes

Correct me if I'm wrong, but that isn't what the hypothesis (I call it a hypothesis, not a theory because we don't yet have any real evidence this is what's going on) is saying at all. The researcher found that the black holes were gaining mass at the same rate the universe was expanding when no material is falling into it. This implies that as long as the universe is growing, these black holes will continue to gain mass, even when no matter is falling into them. This means that the farther away you are from a black hole, the more mass it should have, and they will continue to grow in mass forever...if the hypothesis is correct, that's a really big if. Mass growth could be explained away just simply from a new understanding of galaxy growth (upon which all of this research is heavily dependent on).. Thank you!! These are very interesting answers.

I actually wasnt aware of the Sloan Sky dataset, i thought they only had an model for the dark matter in general, but thats something i’ll have to look into. Same with the Kustaanheimo stuff- i havent heard of him yet, but that kind of stuff is *exactly* the kind of stuff i enjoy with physics.

Thanks again!. I think i get it now, thats actually cooler than what I first thought was going on. Thanks for explaining, I am an EE, my physics stopped after the 3rd semester of fundamental physics.. Woah, that's challenging my way more fundamental understandings. I thought that the expansion of the universe was on a fundamentally different scale than coherent matter (maybe not BH's?). But like stars and planets and the atoms in my finger aren't getting bigger with cosmological expansion, just farther apart at the largest scales (like galaxies +, not atoms). 

So maybe I just have no idea what I'm talking about. Thanks for trying tho lol. Wow thank you for explaining, does this discovery about dark energy bring us any closer to understanding dark matter?. Ah that makes sense, so basically either naturally in the void of space or in man made vacuum systems energy will decrease exponentially, so it can get lower but will never hit zero? A bit like spreading a piece of toast with a tiny piece of butter, you can spread it thinner and thinner but you’ll only ever make it thinner rather than disappear entirely?

I’m totally saving this convo by the way, I’m really interested in this kind of thing but it always feels like there’s 20 more things I have to try and learn to understand for every interesting thing I come across. 😆 

So is it that black holes consume energy, but are hypothesised to then release this back into the universe somehow to cause it to expand?. Could the increase in mass of these black holes be explained by the Unruh effect rather than vacuum energy? As the universe expands, the black is accelerated, and will this observe radiation proportional to its acceleration, which is also dependent on the expansion of the universe. Great, thank you.. I don't know what you mean by "dynamic coupled systems". The paper doesn't talk about "They might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe" at all. 

The paper hypothesizes that BHs gain mass by coupling to cosmological expansion inherently. Nothing depends on them consuming matter. 

>They did this by measuring the growth in the size of Black Holes, then extrapolating the amount of energy it would have taken to grow them at their measured sizes.

I don't see where they talk about this either.. Presumably its the vacuum energy of QFT - when you quantise a classical field (which is what we do to get e.g the standard model of particle physics), you find that the fields themselves tend to have a non zero ground state energy everywhere. This is known as the zero point energy or vacuum energy.. Vacuum energy is the inherent energy that exist in space. This type of Zero-point energy means particles pop in and out of "existance", this explains Hawking Radiation and BHs use this energy to apply positive pressure to space thus expanding it by a difference of energy density. (One of the papers suggests dark energy may be the interaction between vacuum energy, BHs and space, bcz the blackholes "grow" at the same rate as the universe expands, and that these BHs have vacuum energy inside them). Didn't you hear? Vacuum energy is the new dark energy!

(Sorry.. just an unfunny layman). I think its the energy that causes the rate of acceleration of space to increase. Still not sure WHAT exactly it is.. > That said I'm sure they did their due statistics or this wouldnt have been published.

You have a much rosier picture of academic publishing than I do. If that's the case, then they don't have bigger red flags except at the Kremlin.. It was uninhabited!. That is quite the sentence haha. I know silly, haha I'm jokingly referring to stargate atlantis. Yeah, it seems to be that they're saying that the black holes contribute a constant energy density to the universe, and constant energy density means increased expansion through negative pressure. LCDM models parametrize dark energy as a constant energy density term, so it seems like they're arguing this term comes from black hole mass growth.. Thank you so much! While it would be a stretch to call any of this “intuitive,” I do think your explanations are helping me start to build a little bit of intuition around this topic. You are a really stellar physics explainer. 

I can’t resist lobbing another question your way: does the theory propose that only BHs (and not, say, matter outside of BHs) is coupled with space and grows in tandem with expansion? If so, why? I assume it has to do with the nature of the solution to the interior state of the BH. What is it about these non-singular solutions that creates coupling (or what is it about “normal” matter that breaks coupling)?. How is the conclusion that they cause each other different from them being linked simply because space expands at the same rate both inside and outside a black hole?. >Well, I dunno about that, it seems somewhat intuitive to me, but one might need an atypical amount of education in physics and cosmology to build the appropriate intuition. :p

This is how I feel reading this being a PhD in astrophysics with a focus on black holes.

Reading the papers was just amazing because it somehow made sense? haha

There's no funny stuff going on and it just works out neatly.. >Well, I dunno about that, it seems somewhat intuitive to me, but one might need an atypical amount of education in physics and cosmology to build the appropriate intuition. :p

Thank you so much for your explanations, I as a physics layman/hobbyist but without a degree truly, truly appreciate it.

>The two things that cause each other which we are talking about here are: (1) the increase in black hole mass, and (2) the accelerating expansion of space; the former drives the latter, and the latter drives the former.

I don't understand how this solves for dark energy... Space is expanding due to black hole mass increasing, which expands space...it just seems like free energy? How is conservation of energy maintained... where, exactly, was this 70%  the energy of the universe hiding, according to this paper?

Also, do the black holes expand space locally, around themselves, in differing quantities? Or do they all contribute equally to a giant... universal vacuum energy pool?

EDIT: This guy may have answered my question, what do you think of this answer?

>They showed super massive black holes are expanding in line with the universe expansion.  
>  
>I think they used this to rubbish the typical Black holes are infinite maths. They then represented black holes as "realistic" object (e.g. based on what we have seen).  
>  
>This means black holes contribute to vacuum energy (where as they didn't before).  
>  
>The paper the calculates the total vacuum energy this would provide and suggests it would account for the missing dark energy.. Please excuse the naïvete but how does an extra energy density contribute to expansion?  Normally mass and energy density in the stress energy tensor contributes to attraction, correct?. How does the coupling loop work? Do BH emit dark energy? Is so how it escapes the BH?. >That increase then contributes an approximately constant energy density (dark energy)

If this hypothesis proves to be true, then the black holes only contribute a constant energy density while they are dormant. It only works if the black hole's mass increases at the same rate as the scale factor. If they are actively feeding on regular matter, the the energy density is changing and is no longer constant, even though it is still cosmologically coupled and gaining mass from the coupling.

This is the other beautiful part of this paper because it also naturally explains the late arrival of dark energy because we expect black holes to more active in the early universe, and thus not contribute as much to expansion if at all. This was my takeaway as well, simply put, but now some of the
 more knowledgeable comments are making me second-guess this.. > Experiments aimed at determining the baryonic or dark matter densities would not detect any additional gravitational signatures due to the coupling, so I am not sure why you would expect them to given the explanation in the paper.

Interesting, thanks for explaining!. >they present empirical evidence

Eh, that's a big jump. The only empirical evidence they have is that black holes in distant galaxies increase in mass over time, that is it. You can not make any other conclusions from this. That mass increase could have easily also come from dust accumulation in the black hole, or there could be some other possible mechanisms that allow them to increase in mass, we just don't know enough about black hole evolution yet to rule out those other possibilities. In that last table you mentioned, they don't provide empirical evidence of them being candidate objects for dark energy, they provide a theoretical calculation that says they could be, but it's quite a stretch to say their theoretical calculation is empirical.. Ehh, that's not quite right I'm afraid.  Just being a MACHO doesn't make something a candidate for dark matter, although because that term is commonly considered as a candidate for dark matter I could see how you might make that assumption.  However that assumption just isn't correct in this case.  All natural black holes (as well as neutron stars, brown dwarfs, rogue planets, and more) are already MACHOs *by definition*.  Such objects were indeed explored as possible sources of dark matter, but by now have been almost completely ruled out by observational evidence.  That does not mean these objects somehow suddenly do not exist in nature, however.  They still exist and are MACHOs, they just don't make up dark matter.

This paper does not make any claim anywhere in it that the black holes formed in the early universe (which are still MACHOs by definition) would provide an explanation for dark *matter*.  Their only claims in the paper are limited to dark *energy*.. >I was agreeing with /u/physicswizard's point above, which seems others here also support.

Sure, and I also responded to his post as well, mostly in agreement, though it's not clear to me why he thinks the shortcomings of black holes as a candidate for dark matter would apply to dark energy too, given that they are very different phenomena.  The paper does seem to explain clearly how the mechanism works, and states that the numbers he is doubtful of do actually work out.

>This is just one paper of many that have been published in the last decade or so. I understand the authors' are confident their interpretation of the data work for their particular model, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's correct.

Sure, it needs vetting, as all papers do.  Skepticism is of course fair and healthy.

>Even if the mechanism encompassed all black holes, 40 quintillion in this case, they still only account for 1% of the total mass in the universe which is still well below the 68% threshold of dark energy accounted for by modern predictions.

Did you read the paper?  The paper states that the increased mass from cosmological coupling would gravitate as a constant dark energy, and that the measured value for the coupling is consistent with it making up the full 68%.

>An alternative reason for the high rate of supermassive black hole growth in the early universe may come from supermassive stars seeding their creation as they draw in hydrogen or helium at a rate of about 0.1 solar masses per year. For cosmologists and astrophysicists this is known as the Eddington limit.

Come again?  The Eddington limit is a limit on the luminosity of stars and accretion disks, and it's well-established in the literature that models of realistic accretion have big trouble in explaining the observed growth rate of black holes.  As I understand it, either SMBHs would have to accrete at rates well beyond what is physically plausible, or their mass would have to come from something else like mergers or an alternative mechanism such as cosmological coupling.

Also, the paper presents empirical measurements indicating that the mass of supermassive black holes is not due to accretion — they specifically analyzed populations of elliptical galaxies in which accretion rates would be negligible.

>Another recent idea proposed back in July suggests that ultramassive streams of gas could collide at central regions of dark matter filaments in the early universe. This gas could increase to high densities in small volumes or about 100,000 solar masses in one particular location undergoing gravitational collapse.

Don't get me wrong, I'm all for considering alternative hypotheses, but this paper is claiming to present empirical evidence that cosmological coupling is what is responsible — they are essentially making an empirical claim that ought to settle the matter, if confirmed as correct.  I don't believe that empirical evidence can just be handwaved away because there are hypothetical alternatives.

>These ideas seem more plausible, considering we have a better understanding of accretion or even direct collapse than we do of dark energy.

But again, it's an established result that accretion and mergers can't explain the observed masses.  Direct collapse seems to me to be more plausible, but as far as I'm aware there still isn't any clear evidence to support the direct collapse hypothesis.  This paper is preventing evidence that it's cosmological coupling.

>They also don't invoke an elimination of singularities or ringularities in rotating black holes.

Those singularities don't exist in many realistic models of black holes, however.  They are generally present in oversimplified models which feature eternal black holes in a non-expanding spacetime which don't accrete.  Surely you would agree that a realistic model without singularities is preferable to an unrealistic one with them, yes?  :p. thank you! 

i'm still confused how vacuum energy could dominate the interior of a BH?  why vacuum energy?. So does this mean black holes will not evaporate given enough time?

Edit: just seen your reply below 👍. [removed]. I'm telling you it got ruled back in in the last few years, which is why I asked about the post paper which appears to be suggesting expansion. Dark energy pressure being time dependent isn't a novel idea, nor has it been excluded. People who think they know the fate of the universe are fools tbh. You could have just replied yes to my initial question then. 🙄

https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20227033-200-is-dark-energy-getting-weaker/

https://www.forbes.com/sites/startswithabang/2019/01/31/dark-energy-may-not-be-a-constant-which-would-lead-to-a-revolution-in-physics/?sh=7bec4974b737

https://scitechdaily.com/new-model-raises-doubt-about-the-composition-of-70-of-our-universe-dark-energy-may-simply-not-exist/

https://www.sciencealert.com/new-research-suggests-dark-energy-might-not-be-the-push-of-empty-space. Awesome thanks pal :-). They could share the actual papers, with their actual titles and skip all the sensationalism. Ideally also contribe to the discussion.

They a) Cannot and b) Wouldn’t get them clicks, though.. >They would observe a literally infinite amount of time pass by outside the BH before the singularity would form. It never actually happens because of this infinity

I don't understand what the one has to do with the other.  How does this stop the singularity from forming from the perspective of an observer inside the EH?. This is misleading. There’s are singularity theorems by Penrose and Hawking that indicate singularities must form in GR under certain very general circumstances.. I was under the impression that the breakdown of our models happens at the singularity and not at the event horizon.  Do you have any reading you can point me to about that?  Also anything about time stopping inside the event horizon?

For example, [this astronomer](https://askanastronomer.org/bhc/2016/01/19/time-inside-black-hole/) seems to disagree that time stands still for an observer within the event horizon.  

>If the person asking is attached to the clock, then everything looks normal, time runs normally. Actually, general relativity says that the event horizon can be crossed and time would keep running exactly in the same way.

The third question on [this NASA site](https://imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov/ask_astro/black_holes.html) also disagrees.

>From your own point of view, you reach the horizon and cross it, with nothing special happening at the boundary.. The article is not written by a researcher, it's written by a journalist you pretentious 💩. So in a sense, classically, any matter/energy that falls in can't escape because of the internally curved spacetime/ singularity etc etc. 

This is saying that any matter/energy that falls in can't  'escape' in a classical sense, because it gets broken down and converted into the vacuum energy/ dark energy?. It could be. We still don't understand the coupling between BHs and the Universe, but the authors argue that this data suggests that the relationship works in both ways.

We don't know of any mechanisms by which BHs can contribute their material back to our Universe aside from Hawking Radiation. If this coupling is real, it seems like either our understanding of Hawking Radiation is wrong, or there is another mechanism we don't yet know about.

There is a theory that we live inside of a BH. So, in that theory, the interior of a BH could spawn a new Big Bang - as our Universe did. In that case, there would be some sort of unknown physics or mechanism that collects matter and then the process starts over.

Or, conversely, Roger Penrose has a theory of Conformal Cosmology. Where we live in an infinite cycle where time starts at the Big Bang, inflation occurs, stagnation occurs, and our Universe starts to evolve to nothing. Hawking Radiation would eventually cause our largest BHs to evaporate until there was truly nothing but photons and the Universe was same temperature everywhere. With no difference between anything and no gradients, time wouldn't exist. That's the Heat Death of the Universe. We would sit for an unimaginable amount of time until this process started again. With a new Big Bang, we would start a new cycle of counting time.

So, there are many possibilities. But, most importantly, this set of papers comes with testable hypotheses. :). The universe is expanding faster than the speed of light in aggregate - since it is expanding at the speed of light in every direction. It wouldn’t need to be propagated faster than the speed of light. All of the energy together would just need to sustain expansion at the speed of light. Kind of like a hole in trillions of buckets of water filling a lake. Each hole can be small, but together, they can be a raging torrent.. Hmmm... you are right that needs to be much better defined. This is one of those areas where trying to simplify has gotten me in trouble.

There is a lot of debate about how large our Universe actually is. The most commonly accepted estimate is that the Universe is \~92 billion light years (92B LY) in diameter - this is the Observable Universe. But measurements of the curvature of the Universe are much more puzzling.

We should expect to see a curvature that supports the estimate of 92B LY in diameter. However, we find that the curvature of the Universe is very tightly bound around 0.  Vardayan \[1\] showed that the curvature data suggests that the Universe could be 7 trillion light years in diameter (7T LY) - that would be the cosmological boundary (or Cosmological Universe).

Here I meant that it lies outside of the boundary of the Observable Universe - and suggested that Vacuum Energy might be some sort of coupled quantity to the Cosmological Universe.

NOTE: There are others who contend that a curvature of 0 indicates that the Universe is topologically flat. David Kipping with Cool Worlds released a very amazing video about how it is possible that the Universe is topologically flat while still bounded i - in a certain configuration of a special topological manifold in a higher dimensional space \[2\].

\[1\] [https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-3933.2011.01040.x](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1745-3933.2011.01040.x)

\[2\] [https://youtu.be/pn3euL8Tbfw](https://youtu.be/pn3euL8Tbfw). Sure. E=mc^2 says that energy and mass are equivalent. Absolutely empty space has Vacuum Energy, somewhere around 10^-9 J/m^3. 

So, in theory yes. The energy is there in empty space. We believe that empty space actually does this all of the time by creating particle/anti-particle pairs continuously. It an ultrafast process and these are beyond microscopic, but we can measure them and their effect.. Gravity is much stronger than the expansionary force of Dark Energy. So,  galaxies are bound together like a boat in the ocean and dark energy is creating currents in that ocean, but it’s not tearing the boat apart.

Inside of a galaxy, it might have other effects. One theory I’ve been following for a while is called Quantized Inertia. This is a young theory and it has its detractors, but it uses the same processes that drive Dark Energy to explain how any mass has inertia at all.. Yeah. For sure. I’ve seen some chatter about one author in particular. He seems to be prone to making extreme claims.

This model may or may not be correct. The nice thing about this theory is that it provides a theoretically testable hypothesis for Dark Energy. That’s more than we can say for most of our other theories of Dark Energy.

We certainly can’t conclude it is correct from these two papers. But, I think we should be able to disprove it if it isn’t - eventually.. It would absolutely be Nobel-worthy if verified. But, that can take a very long time.

That’s not a silly question at all. We don’t have an acceptable theory for what Dark Matter is, so at this point, nothing is off the table. There isn’t an accepted connection between the two, but they might be connected through inertia.

We don’t have a good theory that explains why things have inertia. There is one, in particular, that I am a fan of called Quantized Inertia. That theory connects these two phenomena.. Good point. Here’s the nuance in that paper. The authors only claimed that BH growth was coupled, not that the Universe expansion was driving BH growth. 

The reason comes down to the energy content of the vacuum. We have two competing values and they describe different flow directions. So, the authors intentionally avoided that analysis.

In the Casimir regime, the vacuum energy content of a BH the size of Sagg A has 50 orders of magnitude more energy than the vacuum of the same space. In the Planck regime, the that same region of vacuum has contains 70 orders of magnitude more energy than the BH.

So, in the Casimir regime, it makes sense that the BH contributes vacuum energy to the Universe, but in the Planck regime, it makes sense that the Universe contributes vacuum energy to the BH.

The Casimir regime is the one we can measure, so it made a nice simple story to convey to the lay audience… but… you are right that it could be the opposite. The Planck regime could be the right one - but we can only calculate but not measure that. 

So, the full answer is that it really depends on which vacuum energy the BH is coupled to.. Happy to help! This is an exciting theory. It might end up being disproven, but, it has the potential to change our understanding of the Universe. If it isn't correct, it will at least inspire a new mode of inquiry either way!. It might be better to think of the gravitational force that binds galaxies like a boat in a cosmic ocean. Dark Energy would then be the current in the ocean.

The atoms in our bodies also experience the push of the Dark Energy current, but it is so much weaker compared to the strength of the atomic and molecular bonds that we don’t notice. 

We are like the planks in our galactic boat. A simple current is never going to rip a plank apart - not by itself. The bonds that hold the wood are so much stronger than a current of water that the plank doesn’t even know the current is there - but the boat does.

Same thing is happening here. Dark Energy is so much weaker than the forces we experience in our galaxy, that we can ignore it’s influence on us.  But, on the scale of the Universe, Dark Energy push all galaxies apart.

Does that answer you uncertainty a bit better?

The rest of the mess of the material about coupling is really just details on how BHs are connected to the Universe.. Did you actually read either of the two papers or even just read their titles or abstracts? Their first paper titled “Observational Evidence for Cosmological Coupling of Black Holes and its Implications for an Astrophysical Source of Dark Energy” has this in its abstract:

>	The continuity equation then requires that black holes contribute cosmologically as vacuum energy. We further show that black hole production from the cosmic star formation history gives the value of ΩΛ measured by Planck while being consistent with constraints from massive compact halo objects. We thus propose that stellar remnant black holes are the astrophysical origin of dark energy, explaining the onset of accelerating expansion at z ∼ 0.7.

You are arguing about the results from the second paper and ignoring their first paper. 

In fact, the lead author says, “We are actually talking about two claims…” in this very article discussing the papers.

I gave you the benefit of the doubt before that you were calling me out over the assumptions made in my simplified explanation… but now I think that you just haven’t read atleast one of the two papers discussed in the article.. Yea but the vacuum energy predicted by normal QFT is roughly 120 orders of magnitude bigger the observed vacuum energy - the vacuum catastrophe. Why is there an inherent energy to space? Wouldn't this violate the First Law of Thermodynamics?. Would this then also account for cosmic inflation if primordial black holes existed at that time? There would be a huge inflationary pressure from such a dense initial condition.. unforeseen consequences. Thanks!

>does the theory propose that only BHs (and not, say, matter outside of BHs) is coupled with space and grows in tandem with expansion? If so, why?

Well, the paper says the following:

>>A consequence of this result \[from a previous paper\] is that relativistic material, located anywhere, can become cosmologically coupled to the expansion rate.

So it appears that it applies to any relativistic matter, not just black holes / their interiors ... however, very few natural systems are both relativistic and have any appreciable mass to begin with.  I would venture a guess that black holes would be the only major contributor, but I cannot say for certain.  What I can tell you is that the paper purports to check whether specifically stellar-collapse black holes could explain the entire dark energy signature, and the paper says that it can.

>I assume it has to do with the nature of the solution to the interior state of the BH.

Yes, that is my understanding as well!

>What is it about these non-singular solutions that creates coupling (or what is it about “normal” matter that breaks coupling)?

I am not entirely certain; I believe the result mentioned above that says relativistic matter can be coupled to the expansion rate is actually in another paper referenced by the one this article is about, so you might need to read that paper to get the details.. I don't think I understand your question, or maybe your question just doesn't make sense?

The two things that cause each other which we are talking about here are:  (1) the increase in black hole mass, and (2) the accelerating expansion of space; the former drives the latter, and the latter drives the former.

I don't think it is clear that space expands at the same rate both inside and outside (and I'd expect that it doesn't); the paper never talks about that and its result doesn't appear to be influenced by it.  The only related thing the paper seems to be influenced by is generally what the interior region's mass distribution is (it must be dominated by vacuum energy).  The size of the interior region or how it may or may not change over time doesn't seem to enter into the reasoning at all here.. Yeah, I have to laugh because when I originally clicked on the submitted pop-sci article, I was like "okay this is certainly some bullsh-t and if nobody calls it out as such in the comments, I am going to.  I better skim through the paper just to make sure it's the crackpot garbage I expect it is."  But after actually reading the paper and seeing that it was fairly straightforward and generally made sense, I had to revisit my skepticism haha.  When they finally got to section 3.1 and they pointed out the mass gain being proportional to a^(3) and number density being proportional to a^(-3), [this was basically my reaction](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/870/340/131.gif).  :p. >Space is expanding due to black hole mass increasing, which expands space...it just seems like free energy? How is conservation of energy maintained...

Well, it's not *useful* energy (you can't harvest it and use it to do work somehow), but it's fairly well-established that [an expanding universe doesn't conserve energy](https://www.preposterousuniverse.com/blog/2010/02/22/energy-is-not-conserved/) as a consequence of [Noether's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noether%27s_theorem) and the fact that an expanding universe doesn't possess time-translation symmetry.  Dark energy already was an example of energy non-conservation, so this paper's result doesn't seem to change anything in that regard.

>where, exactly, was this 70% the energy of the universe hiding, according to this paper?

In the interior of black holes!

>Also, do the black holes expand space locally, around themselves, in differing quantities? Or do they all contribute equally to a giant... universal vacuum energy pool?

Neither.  Space around them is contracting (which is why if you start out at rest near them, you will eventually fall in), and the extra mass they gain from the cosmological coupling mechanism in this paper makes black holes (technically, all relativistic matter) gravitate like dark energy a bit extra.

>EDIT: This guy may have answered my question, what do you think of this answer?

Eh, they got the first sentence right.  The next three don't appear to be correct though unfortunately.. Yes, you're correct that normally mass / energy density does result in attraction, all other things being equal.  However in the case of dark energy, it also contributes a high negative pressure — another term from the stress-energy tensor — which results in accelerated expansion rather than attraction, at least for an already-expanding universe.

For brevity's sake I'll just quote a passage from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_energy#Nature) here for you:

>Independently of its actual nature, dark energy would need to have a strong negative pressure to explain the observed acceleration of the expansion of the universe. According to general relativity, the pressure within a substance contributes to its gravitational attraction for other objects just as its mass density does. This happens because the physical quantity that causes matter to generate gravitational effects is the stress–energy tensor, which contains both the energy (or matter) density of a substance and its pressure. In the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric, it can be shown that a strong constant negative pressure (i.e., tension) in all the universe causes an acceleration in the expansion if the universe is already expanding, or a deceleration in contraction if the universe is already contracting. This accelerating expansion effect is sometimes labeled "gravitational repulsion".

The one thing I'd caution against with the above description would be applying the label "gravitational repulsion."  While it's perhaps somewhat common as a description, I feel that (accelerated) expansion is a more appropriate word.  When people typically think of both attraction and repulsion, they think of electrostatic attraction and repulsion, both of which follow an inverse-square law in which the closer two objects are, the stronger the effect is between the two objects.  Similarly, gravitational attraction also follows an inverse-square law ... however, expansion doesn't.  Expansion follows a linear law, where two objects that are close together *don't* experience any strong effects at all, and the effect gets stronger the further away two objects are.  It's certainly very far in behavior from what we might imagine to be the gravitational analogue of electromagnetic repulsion.  So I think repulsion is not a good word to use to describe it, and that expansion is a much better characterization.

Hope that helps.  Cheers!. Black holes would have extra mass, and the amount of extra mass they gain as the universe expands would be just the right amount to make it appear as if there were a constant vacuum energy density throughout space.  It's actually just the black holes gravitating normally — nothing is escaping from any black holes or anything — but the math works out such that this extra gravitation has essentially the same impact that a constant vacuum energy density would.. Yeah, I did read the paper. I'm also aware the Eddington limit is in reference to luminosity, but it's proportional to the amount of infalling matter in the case of black hole accretion.

I'm in favor of natural processes that reconcile infinite gravitational curvature, but remain cautious of new ideas that aren't supported or corroborated by other established ones.

Don't get me wrong, the hypothesis that's been proposed is neat, it just seems unlikely. Nevertheless, I hope the James Webb Telescope sheds light on it at some point in the future.. The implication is that the interior of the black hole is largely empty space.  When all you have is more or less empty space (i.e. a vacuum), then naturally, the only significant energy density there can be would be due to vacuum energy.. >Ouch, I suppose I deserved that

Nah, sorry, I just ... didn't really know how to parse out what you were wanting to ask.  I should've asked you to try and rephase it or something.  Sorry if I came off as rude, it wasn't my intention. :(  And I apologize again in advance for the long post, but you asked a very good question that's tangentially related to another very good question that Einstein actually puzzled over, without success at solving it ... and I hope to give you a good answer, if for nothing else than to make up for any triteness on my part, heh!

>If the mass of a black hole can increase over time even without absorbing anything, is that not an effect of something happening within the black hole?

It could be, but it doesn't necessarily need to be, exactly.  So, are you familiar with how electromagnetic waves lose energy due to the expansion of the universe?  As the universe expands, they do become less dense, since there's roughly the same amount/energy of EM waves but now occupying a larger space, but there's also an additional effect on top of that — see, expansion causes the distances between points to increase, and at least in the vast voids of space between galaxies (i.e. almost all of space, since space is friggin' *yuuuge* haha), that also includes the distance between, for example, the crests of a wave in the electromagnetic field.  Consequently, the wavelength of the wave also increases.  A wave's wavelength is inversely proportional to its frequency, right?  So that means the frequency is decreasing.  And its frequency is proportional to its energy ... which means its energy is decreasing, too.  To use another term for it:  it is redshifting.

Now, in light of the above, it's a common thought, "well, energy is conserved, so where does the lost energy go?"  Einstein himself pondered this sort of question for much time, and worked hard to try and derive a correct expression for the total energy of the universe that was always conserved even through expansion — at least without resorting to balancing it against gravitational potential energy, since potential energy is a relative quantity and not an absolute one ... after all, you can define the potential energy to be whatever value you want just by chosing an appropriate "zero" point to be the reference for all your calculations, so in a sense it's kind of "cheating."  But try as he might, he wasn't able to find a good expression that remained conserved.  It was a brilliant young female mathematician (and one of my personal heroes!) named Emmy Noether who ended up working out the answer, through a result that is now called [Noether's theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noether%27s_theorem).  Ms. Noether was much more a mathematician than a physicist and there are many abstract mathematical structures now named after her, but she loved to work on solving problems, and had a tendency to work on them as *generally* as possible — meaning, reducing the problem down to its very most essential features only.  Through her excellent deductive analysis, she was able to prove a bit of math that gave us deep insight into conservation laws — specifically, when and why they exist ... and also, when and why they do not.

Her theorem relates conservation laws to the presence of certain kinds of symmetries in a physical system (or rather, in an abstract part of the mathematical description of a physical system, known as the "[action](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Action_%28physics%29)").  Each symmetry possessed by (the action of) a system corresponds, through this theorem, to some specific conserved quantity.  When this symmetry is present/respected, that quantity is conserved ... and when it *isn't present*, when it is violated, that quantity *isn't* conserved.  Some common examples include:  linear momentum and translation symmetry (meaning:  moving a system to a different coordinate in space — "translating" it — does not change the system's action, which could affect the results of any experimental apparatus you might construct) and angular momentum and rotational symmetry (i.e. rotating a system in space does not change its action).

Well, through the lens of Noether's theorem, we can ask what symmetry corresponds to the quantity of energy, which when present ensures that energy is conserved ... and the name of that symmetry is "time-translation symmetry."  For that symmetry, if you were to say, perform an experiment at a different *time* rather than in a different location or facing a different direction, if its action wouldn't change by doing so then your system possesses/respects time-translation symmetry.

So, we would only expect energy to be conserved for a system that respects time-translation symmetry ... and we can expect it to *not* be conserved in systems that don't respect time-translation symmetry.  And it turns out that an expanding universe doesn't, in fact, respect time-translation symmetry.  In an expanding universe, the action of a given physical system depends — in a predictable manner, mind you — on where in time that physical system is located.  For example, what is otherwise the same electromagnetic wave travelling through space would have a different wavelength at a different point in time because the metric of space — essentially the definition of distance between any two chosen points — has increased, and those distances have grown farther apart.

And so, for those kinds of systems which are affected by the expansion of space (of which freely-propagating electromagnetic waves are an example), we should actually expect energy to not be conserved.  When Ms. Noether sent the details of applying her theorem with respect to energy to Einstein, showing him that energy should not be conserved in an expanding universe (and basically explaining to him why he had always met with failure in his attempts, as success was never really possible), Einstein was very impressed.  According to Wikipedia, he wrote later of her in a letter to David Hilbert:  "Yesterday I received from Miss Noether a very interesting paper on invariants. I'm impressed that such things can be understood in such a general way. The old guard at Göttingen should take some lessons from Miss Noether! She seems to know her stuff."  And with the passing of time, Einstein and several other contemporary figures in math and physics even came to regard her as "the most important woman in the history of mathematics."

So you see, in an expanding universe, particularly with respect to systems which are affected by that expansion, energy isn't actually conserved.  Truthfully, that's half a lie I just told — there are actually two laws of conservation for energy, a "local" one (think of it as applying to infinitesimal, pointlike interactions between adjacent points of space) and a "global" one (which applies to extended volumes, where the curvature of spacetime is relevant), and only the global one is violated (technically: since spacetime is a manifold and manifolds by definition look locally like Euclidean space, and Euclidean space doesn't expand or have any curvature).  But all the same, this means that for systems spanning an extended volume/distance in an expanding and/or curved spacetime, the total amount of energy is not conserved.

Okay, so now let's come back to the subject of black holes, and the result of this paper.  One of the arguments the paper makes is that, like the free EM waves propagating in space, black holes are another kind of system that is affected by the expansion of space in a way that, simply put, doesn't conserve energy.  Unlike the EM waves which lose energy, however, if this result is correct then black holes should *gain* energy over time.  They actually even state this directly in the paper, where they say:

>>The effect is analogous to the cosmological photon redshift, but generalized to timelike trajectories.

And so as space expands, black holes would gain mass/energy over time just due directly to the expansion.  This ... doesn't really mean that anything "intrinsic" or "internal" is changing about the black hole, or that anything is happening inside of it to make it change.  Rather, it's just that space is expanding, and black holes gaining mass is simply just a consequence of that.  I hope that answers your question!

>Or does the relativistic coupling mean that nothing about the black hole or its contents is changing, and that measurement itself is dependent on the expansion of the universe?

You more or less got it; the measurement itself is dependent on the expansion of the universe.  Now, according to the paper, the *reason* it is dependent on expansion is because of some of the details about the interior region of the black hole — not exactly details about what specifically is happening inside of it, but what its geometry and energy distribution looks like overall (nothing needs to "happen" inside it, it just needs to have certain properties).  The paper says that different solutions to the equations of general relativity describing different geometries/distributions for this interior region has a consequence on the strength of this cosmological coupling, and that by looking at real black holes in nature to determine what the strength of the coupling is, we can put some constraints on what kinds of details the interior region must have, and deduce that black holes must have interior regions for which the primary energy density within that region comes from vacuum energy.

Hope that all makes sense!. ... and I'm telling you it *didn't* get ruled back this year.  The paper you posted doesn't suggest expansion, it says in the paper's very title "the end of cosmic expansion" and in the abstract talks about the transition to contraction.  I never said that dark energy being time-dependent was novel or that it was excluded, what I said was that there is no empirical evidence to support it, which is true.  The bottom line is that there is no evidence that the model in your linked paper is correct — it is an untested hypothesis only, and the paper even admits that it can't be tested empirically yet — and that there is a consensus among cosmologists that the currently accepted best model of the cosmos, the Lambda-CDM model (which is supported by a very substantial amount of evidence) unequivocably predicts unending expansion without any contraction phase.  Is it possible new evidence might emerge that changes the current consensus?  Sure, of course it is.  Does that mean one would be wise to hold their breath waiting for it to happen?  Certainly not.. Not everyone would get it though. That's the point of the abstract, and even that isn't often easily read by laypeople lol. The event horizon is why nothing can escape, and that's fairly understandable. 

It's the singularity beyond that point that is trouble. Relativity breaks down at the singularity. This is an idea that could potentially rectify that. It's not the only theory out there but it is an interesting and new idea worth looking at. 

But physics is full of placeholder analogies that describe what we see but in ways that probably aren't what's actually going on. Like virtual particles in hawking radiation. I've heard scientists say that virtual particles aren't something that literally exists. They explain a phenomena but in a way that is probably going to need revision and more research to fully understand. Like how Galileos boat described the concept of relativity, but they were missing some key insight that Einstein ended up bringing to the table years later. 

And here we are at the singularity. The point where Einsteins genius became a shipwreck. Those Jupiter brain physicists are still working to resolve that problem decades later. And they haven't. But this is an interesting idea and who knows, maybe they're finally on the right track to explaining the singularity.. Two questions.

1. Is the BHs making new universes the same theory as Cosmological Natural Selection? Is this theory compatible with the dark energy theory discussed in the papers OP shared?

2. Unrelated to post, but in the Penrose theory you mention, how would a new Big Bang start after heat death?. I just meant in regards to why the expansion doesn't vary in different areas, given the distribution and mass of black holes isn't necessarily consistent. damn, so if my maths is right (and it probably isn't) then the observed curvature of the universe implies that our observable universe is about 1.31% the size of the wider universe?

(ignoring for a moment the flatness hypothesis which, is a whole other ettle of fish my brain doesn't want to grapple with). Yeah, I'm aware of that aspect of particle physics, (although it's photons and anti-photons), and it is how hawking radiation works. It's also how we create antimatter for scientific purposes. But based on how we currently understand mass from a quantum standpoint, spontaneous symmetry breaking through interactions with the higgs boson and higgs field, and because of the inconsistency between the observed value of vacuum energy and the theoretical value of vacuum energy, I'm wondering if that extra energy that is predicted but not detected might be the fabric of space itself, created by the decomposition of quantum particles inside of black holes, and if so, can that energy be harnessed? I'm also wondering if this undetectable vaccum energy may be responsible for the gravitational force though I don't know how to reconcile it with Quantum field theory. But there is something about this concept that seems to explain a lot in a very satisfying manner that it's either too good to be true or something worth spending the rest of my life trying to prove correct.. That is incredibly interesting! Thank you.  So, that would mean that dark energy does indeed interact with matter, just in a far more fundamental way than what we have tried to observe?. Okay. Yea, that's how I had always thought of it. Makes sense that BHs would have a unique relationship with whatever dark energy is. 

Isn't dark energy something like several orders of magnitude weaker even than gravity? Gravity is far far weaker than even intermolecular forces - hence why only hyper massive tidal forces can actually disrupt solid matter (BH, neutron stars, etc). So I would draw the analogy between atoms/solid matter and solar systems - while a whole galaxy feels the dark energy 'current' the individual solar systems won't. So there's inter-system expansion, but not intra-system. 

IDK, I think except for the new stuff, I'm okay lol.. >You are arguing about the results from the second paper and ignoring their first paper.

No I'm not? The second paper talks about mass growth that doesn't seem to be from accretion. The first paper attributes that mass growth to coupling with cosmological expansion. 

My problem is not the claims made by the papers. My problem is your statements here:

>They determined, to a high-degree of confidence, that the data supports the hypothesis that the amount of matter Black Holes would have consumed and reincorporated (if correct) is about the same as the energy generated by Dark Energy that caused the Universe to expand over the same time period. They did this by measuring the growth in the size of Black Holes, then extrapolating the amount of energy it would have taken to grow them at their measured sizes.

Show me where the papers talks about "the matter Black Holes would have consumed" and how that relates to dark energy, because I can't find it. 

>the amount of matter Black Holes would have consumed and reincorporated (if correct) is about the same as the energy generated by Dark Energy that caused the Universe to expand over the same time period

And this is just false, unless I'm misunderstanding something fundamentally. DE density is same order of magnitude as DM+baryonic matter density. So if BHs consumed the same amount of energy as the DE driving expansion, that means BHs consumed all of DM+baryonic matter. Which means there wouldn't be any normal matter left... 

And even if the paper talks about that, that's not the same thing as "Black Holes might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe", whatever that means. 

I gave you the benefit of the doubt before that you were misunderstanding something… but now I think that you're just making up stuff.. Yeah that is a good point to mention - my GR prof called it "the worst prediction in history, other than Bill Gates' claim that we would never need 32-bit operating systems".

But hey, what's a factor of a googolplex between friends?

*Edit: my bad, a factor of a googol, not a googolplex, of course. That'll teach me for flippancy!*. This is where the term "virtual" particles comes from. Particle and anti particle pairs use the latent energy in space to pop into existence and immediately annihilate each other thus staying in line with the first law. An idea is that a particle and it's pair can pop into existence on either side of the event horizon of a black hole, since they can't meet and annihilate each other, the particle on the outside is now "real". This is known as hawking radiation. Obligatory not an expert, just an enthusiast. At cosmological scales, *energy is not conserved*. By Noether's Theorem, conservation of energy is a consequence of invariance under time translation. This invariance applies at most scales, but the expansion of the universe means it doesn't apply at cosmological scales. The expansion of the universe creates energy. The vacuum energy density is constant (about 10^-9  joules per cubic meter) even as space expands. The vacuum energy doesn't "spread out" and decrease in density.. Due to the inherently probabilistic nature of quantum mechanics, even a total lack of excitation of the quantum field (where excitations are "particles") in an area is simply a statistical average. Therefore particles can pop into existence at an amount of time and energy bounded by Heisenberg uncertainty (I think). When you sum up all the potential quantum fluctuations over a volume you get the vacuum energy.. That's classic physic. In quantum physics we can have energy out of nowhere.. I will read up on relativistic matter and see what I can make of it. Thanks again!. > The two things that cause each other which we are talking about here are: (1) the increase in black hole mass, and (2) the accelerating expansion of space; the former drives the latter, and the latter drives the former.

If they both feed into each other does that mean there's going to be a runaway feedback loop at some point in the future where black holes swallow up the whole universe? :(. If I’m understanding correctly, the mass of black holes is increasing due to an increase in vacuum energy caused by the interior space expanding. This is then resulting in expansion outside. How do we know this is a causal relationship? Is it possible they’re just correlated because the expansion is equal in both places?. >it's not useful energy

Not true, I can attached a rope to a galaxy that is receding away from us and extract energy from the expansion of space. It's just that you can't do it forever as eventually the rope will become causally disconnected, and the rope will break long before that.. Thanks.  What I’m trying to understand is what is a physical mechanism for a negative pressure.  I understand that in GR equations you can choose the sign, but still I’m trying to understand an example of its realistic physical nature.  This is physics, not mathematics, as there has to be some rule determined by observation of Nature to identify something as having that quality.

In particular, what fields and particles of SM in what arrangement could make such a negative pressure source term in gravitation? 

Usual pressure in a gas is a macroscopic fluid observable from integrating over a numerous enough ensemble of particles and arises from the momentum they impute from collisions.  Relative to vacuum, everything in this class has positive pressure, is that right?

Is there any normal matter/massless field which can make a negative pressure?  Is there something peculiar about black holes that can have BHs from originally normal matter start to posses this unusual property?. >Don't get me wrong, the hypothesis that's been proposed is neat, it just seems unlikely.

Seems unlikely based on what consideration, though?

Remember, the paper is presenting what appears to be unambiguous empirical evidence that it is correct, which is more than any of the alternatives have done.  That can't just be handwaved away with anything like mere feelings ...

Christopher Hitchens is famous for saying, "that which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence," and he's certainly right.  But the corollary to that principle is:  when one *has* supporting evidence to back up an assertion, contrary evidence is now needed to credibly dismiss it.. interesting- i'm baffled that the interior of a BH can just be empty space...?  how is that possible?  is the vacuum energy concentrated to such a large degree that it "pushes back" against the gravitational force?. I disagree. You're confused. Post paper means the Reddit post not the one I linked in a comment. Plenty of research to suggest otherwise. Read some of the links and get off your high horse. Wow.. The linked article doesn’t tell anything to lay people, though. It’s just…bad.. This is a great explanation. I am seriously going to borrow parts of it when I explain physics to my family. I think you're right here when you say:

> But physics is full of placeholder analogies that describe what we see but in ways that probably aren't what's actually going on.

That could end up being what this is. Dark Energy could just be a placeholder for a Universe where Vacuum Energy is being added at a rate that keeps its density constant throughout the Universe.

One problem with this theory is that the only way we know that BHs can contribute anything back to the Universe is through Hawking Radiation. We understand that process as a virtual particle pair materializing and being pulled apart so that one ends up over the event horizon and the other escapes into space. This theory would mean that there is either an unknown mechanism or perhaps we don't have a complete understanding of Hawking Radiation.

I think regardless of whether this theory is ultimately disproven, it provides really solid evidence that we need to examine our assumptions about Black Holes. We now believe they actually do have hair now - so maybe they are not exactly the cosmological points of no return we believed them to be. Maybe the singularity is not much of a singularity at all.. 1.	Hmmm… maybe? In the BH models they cited in this paper, matter in their interior is a type of superfluid. Now, this means that gravity doesn’t crush it to a singularity in the same way. But, I guess from the perspective inside of the event horizon, the interior fluid would be a sort of a Quantum Foam. So, I have nothing but intuition here, but it feels like the dynamics could be intact.
2.	We don’t know. But it happened once before, so it should happen more given an infinite amount of time. In Penrose’s cosmology, when we get to heat death, we don’t have two things that are different to measure, so time becomes meaningless. Maybe we only restart once in a billion earth years, a quintillion, or once in a million quintillion years. Time is meaningless at that point, so those three times seem the same. From the perspective of the Universe, time stops and starts again when the next Big Bang starts. How ever much time passes seems instantaneous.. As far as we can tell, Vacuum Energy behaves kind of like a perfect fluid. If you imagine how a fluid behaves in the lake analogy, that’s pretty close to how we see Vacuum Energy behaving in some theories.

So, it can have pretty widely varying rates - and in some areas, the coupling might even slow down the expansion.

But, the really important caveat here is that we don’t have a standard definition of what Vacuum Energy is, how to measure it, or even how much should be there. Two agreed upon estimates are the Casimir Effect measurements and the Planck calculations. These two numbers are about 1 with 120 zeros different.

If it is a perfect fluid, we should be able to measure local gradients, but none necessarily need to be moving faster than the speed of light individually.. If you zoom out to a large enough part of the universe, the black holes will be approximately homogenous. This is an underlying assumption behind the Robertson-Walker metric from which the expansion of the universe is derived.. Yep. That’s about right or larger. The data is so close to 0 that it’s within our error bars of measurement. So, we can’t tell its 0 or if it’s 7T LY or larger.

To be clear though, the consensus is that it is 0 and we just have a hard time measuring it. So our universe would either be flat or an exotic topological shape - likely a 3-torus.. Ah! My apologies on such a simple answer. I didn’t understand my audience. :)

I think the first key aspect we need to nail down is the precise nature of Vacuum Energy, how to measure it, and which of the competing regimes is dominant in these measurement. Then, we can answer the more relevant questions about BHs.

In the Casimir regime, that is the forces that we measure based on his work, the Vacuum Energy density is ~10^-9 J/m^3 (~5 GeV). In these papers, and in the prior work they rely on, that’s the regime they use. 

However, there is a competing way to calculate Vacuum Energy from first principles relying on the Planck factors. In the Planck regime, we calculate the Vacuum Energy density to be ~10^113 J/m^3. 

This leads to the speculation that we are in a false vacuum state. But that’s a topic for another time. The important question is which of those is dominant.

I did some rough calculations in a Jupyter notebook trying to visualize this for Sagittarius A. Assuming an event horizon diameter of 26M km and a mass of 4.3M solar masses, that BH would contain about 30 orders of magnitude more energy than the equivalent amount of space under the Casimir regime - but about 100 orders of magnitude *less* energy than the Planck regime.

So, in the Casimir regime, we can see how the balance of energy between the two systems is extreme and we have plenty of energy budget for BHs to somehow influence our Universe. However, in the Planck regime, the energy contained in BHs is diminishingly small relative to vacuum space.

It is possible that these discrepancies in energy play a key role in effects in ways that we don’t understand. It could be that this dynamic influences the Higgs field somehow. That’s a really good question.

There is some evidence that it may be responsible for inertia. Mike McCulloch has been developing a theory called Quantized Inertia for the past two decades or so. He derived the results through experimental data, but the essence of why he believes it might work is deeply related to Vacuum Energy.

So, it is not a stretch at all for me to believe that there could be a relationship between vacuum energy & gravity. We already have a potential link to mass through inertia, it seems we’d be a solid step in the right direction if it were related to gravity too.. Yep. Good analogy. You have the right understanding of the forces.

The force Gravity is immensely stronger than the force Dark Energy (in the opposite direction though). Something like 20 orders of magnitude stronger for 1 kg of mass - and it is the weakest of all of our forces. So, our galaxy is pushed across the Universe on Dark Energy currents and never even feels it.. Did you actually read the first paper? Or, are you just winging it based on skimming it? Because you're missing the bi-directional nature of "coupling". You seem to be arguing that the "cosmological coupling" is driving the mass evolution of BHs - which is not what that term means. Mass Growth through accretion is subdominant, but not non-existent. The contribution of BHs to Dark Energy is an aggregate effect across all BHs (See Section 5).

Or, you didn't read my note and are trying to construct a Straw Man argument that I already addressed. Either way, I'll respond one more time for anyone else reading this.

>Show me where the papers talks about "the matter Black Holes would have consumed" and how that relates to dark energy, because I can't find it.

You can pick your preferred spot:

1. Abstract:

>The redshift dependence of the mass growth implies that, at z ≲ 7, black holes contribute an effectively constant cosmological energy density to Friedmann’s equations. The continuity equation then requires that black holes contribute cosmologically as vacuum energy.

2. Section 3.1:

>Within an RW cosmology, however, all objects dilute in number density proportional to a−3. When accretion becomes subdominant to growth by cosmological coupling, this population of BHs will contribute in aggregate as a nearly cosmologically constant energy density. From conservation of stress-energy, this is only possible if the BHs also contribute cosmological pressure equal to the negative of their energy density, making k ∼ 3 BHs a cosmological dark energy species.

3. Section 5:

>Cosmological conservation of stress-energy implies that k = 3 BHs contribute as a dark energy species. We show that k = 3 stellar remnant BHs produce the measured value of ΩΛ within a wide range of observationally viable cosmic star formation histories, stellar IMFs, and remnant accretion. They remain consistent with constraints on halo compact objects and they naturally explain the "coincidence problem," because dark energy domination can only occur after cosmic dawn. Taken together, we propose that stellar remnant k = 3 BHs are the astrophysical origin for the late-time accelerating expansion of the universe.

I'm not sure what the disconnect is here except perhaps you don't understand Friedmann's continuity equation and its relevance on the cosmological coupling. You seem to think that "coupling" implies that the growth of the Universe drives the mass evolution BHs in a singular fashion, which is not what "coupling" means or what Friedmann implies. 

A dynamic-coupled system is precise language. It means a system has multiple components that can all influence each other in a dynamic fashion and that combine to form the aggregate outcome of the system - like an n-body system. Friedmann's continuity equation implies a dynamic coupling between the BHs that contain Vacuum Energy and the Universe.

>And even if the paper talks about that, that's not the same thing as "Black Holes might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe", whatever that means.

Bruh. This has been accepted since Hawking in 1974 and it really doesn't even require Vacuum Energy. This shouldn't even have been controversial, except to try to create some Straw Man argument. I'm not going to argue about the existence of Hawking Radiation. Feel free to not understand the terms we use for laymen.

If you actually did read these papers, then your understanding is closer to someone who skimmed the material and is trying to argue superficial wording. Feel free to read them in detail and get back to me if you actually want to discuss something of substance.. Factor of a googol (and another factor of 10^20 ). A _googolplex_ is much more, it’s 10^googol .. Faktor of 10^120 ain't even close to a googolplex, more like a glorified googol.. It's worth noting that most physicists these days do not consider virtual particles an actual description of reality.  The mathematics that describe them are generally considered nothing more than an model that has been superseded by newer ones.  In particular, the description of Hawking radiation being caused by the separation of virtual particles seems to be very out of vogue.

Pop science documentaries keep using the virtual particle analogy, keeping it alive.  But from what I've seen, there's not too many practicing physicists that still think there are actual particles popping in and out of reality.

The PBS Spacetime episode on Hawking radiation from a year or two back goes over this in a bit more detail if I recall.. Also look into Unruh radiation. It has a related affect that pertains to accelerating observers.. So when they don't annihilate instantly, isn't it a violation?. This is completely wrong. What a joke. Particles don't pop out from nowhere.

Just stop spreading misinformation. An intuitive example is the loss of energy experienced by cosmologically red-shifted photons. A blue photon was emitted and millions of years later a red photon was absorbed. Where did the energy difference go?. this has broken my brain.. Wouldn't this require a negative energy to counterbalance these excitations? 

What I don't understand is how energy is not conserved on cosmological scales - 

Where does this additional energy come from? 

If Quantum Mechanics truly gives us ways around the Laws of Thermodynamics, could this be put to use somehow?. No, I don't think that can be the case — the universe as a whole is far too big (many parts of it are already causally disconnected and can never interact with each other again even in principle), and if things are expanding away from each other at accelerating rates, the number density of objects is just going to continue to decrease.  Remember, black holes aren't like cosmic vacuum cleaners that suck everything up; to be eaten by a black hole you have to basically aim directly for it, and if you're off by even a little bit you end up in an orbit around it, or slingshotting around it then flying away from it again.. Ah, so then unfortunately I do believe this is a bit of a misunderstanding. :(  According to the paper, this coupling strength isn't necessarily related to anything specific happening in the interior region (such as it expanding, or the amount of vacuum energy increasing), rather it is related to the interior region's overall properties.  Different geometries and energy distributions within the interior region give rise to different coupling strengths.  In the paper, they present measurements that were made to determine what the coupling strength must be in nature, and use those measurements to constrain what the possible geometries/distributions could be for the interior region, and rule out some kinds of geometries/distributions.  According to the authors, the value they obtained implies that the interior regions must be mostly vacuum, and most of its total energy must come from vacuum energy.  That doesn't necessarily mean that anything about the value of this vacuum energy is responsible for the mass increasing, nor does it mean that the interior space must also be expanding or that its vacuum energy must be increasing.  Perhaps that could be a possibility, but it isn't *necessarily* the case — perhaps it could be shrinking instead, or even just staying the same size.  But the fact that it is mostly vacuum and that most of the interior region's energy comes from vacuum energy is why black holes gain in mass at the rate that this paper suggests they do.

Hope that makes sense!. >What I’m trying to understand is what is a physical mechanism for a negative pressure.

Honestly, I forget where I encountered it, but I remember coming across a thermodynamics-based argument involving having a box with a side that could be moved so as to expand the box's volume.  Sadly, I forget enough of the details to properly communicate it here ... but it seemed like a compelling argument when I read it. :(

I *think* it was vaguely something along the lines of:  if you consider a gas inside the box which would apply a positive pressure on the walls of the box, and you let the gas pressure move the box's sliding wall freely, the gas would do work on the box and lose energy in the process ... but if the box is filled with a constant vacuum energy, you would need to *add* energy to the box from an external source in order to move the wall outward (since there's an energy cost to having empty space inside it; to add more space, you have to add the associated energy to cover the vacuum energy for the additional volume); the "system" in the box is *gaining* energy rather than losing it (as you have to apply a force on the box's wall from the outside for the wall to move outward towards you), and so if you crunch out all the equations with the correct signs, it turns out that the pressure inside the box must be negative.  And if I remember right, this *wouldn't* be the case if the box were not expanding in volume, or if there was were no vacuum energy or if the vacuum energy density were not constant, it specifically applied to the case of constant vacuum energy density with an expanding volume.

Unfortunately I forget most of the details, it's been a while since I encountered the reasoning and thermodynamics is a bit of a weakness of mine, heh ...

>In particular, what fields and particles of SM in what arrangement could make such a negative pressure source term in gravitation?

Well, quintessence models based on scalar fields are common as non-standard dark models.  I don't know that it's restricted to just scalar fields (I'd expect any fields could work in principle) but you might be able to look at quintessence models as a starting point.

>Usual pressure in a gas is a macroscopic fluid observable from integrating over a numerous enough ensemble of particles and arises from the momentum they impute from collisions. Relative to vacuum, everything in this class has positive pressure, is that right?

Errr, that sounds correct, yes.  Did I mention thermodynamics is my weakness?  :p

>Is there any normal matter/massless field which can make a negative pressure? Is there something peculiar about black holes that can have BHs from originally normal matter start to posses this unusual property?

I think it's specifically tied to the fact that the energy density is required to remain constant, so that in order to expand the volume energy needs to be added to it.  I don't believe it has anything to do with black holes specifically.. Based on competing hypotheses that seem more likely and have supporting papers. Dark energy is defined as having a particular equation of state and a collection of black holes - all of them in this case - don't fulfill the same state.

Just because black holes gain mass in an an expanding universe, doesn't mean that the expanding universe is causing the mass gain. Theory and experiment need to see eye to eye, especially because general relativity is so persnickety.

The authors go on to assume that supermassive black hole growth is caused by an extrinsic source. For all we know, it could be an intrinsic feature of black holes that's not yet outlined by legacy models. The data analysis could also be p-hacking, but until theoretical frameworks are presented, it's up for debate.

It's pretty clear that their data analysis isn't too reliable. They compare vastly different datasets with vastly different techniques and even selection biases.

I'm interested in hearing what other experts in the field think of these papers. My guess is they won't be as pivotal as people are making them out to be.. >i'm baffled that the interior of a BH can just be empty space...? how is that possible?

That I cannot say; the technical details are over my head too, and are explained in a different paper I haven't read which is cited by this one.

That being said, I know that in the naive black hole metrics, the interiors are generally treated as empty except for the singularity, which occupies zero volume, so this doesn't actually come as a big surprise to me.

> is the vacuum energy concentrated to such a large degree that it "pushes back" against the gravitational force?

I think the whole idea of vacuum energy is that it *isn't* concentrated, and is uniform throughout the entire volume of vacuum.  In any case, how vacuum energy gravitates wouldn't "push back" against the gravitational force — it would be *part of* the gravitational force!  :). >Post paper means the Reddit post not the one I linked in a comment.

Your original comment that I replied to just said "paper," not "post paper," so it was unclear.  My mistake then.

>I disagree. You're confused. ... Plenty of research to suggest otherwise. Read some of the links and get off your high horse. Wow.

Well, you can disagree all you like, but what I said above is a consensus among cosmologists.  Cosmologists research plenty of things which are purely hypothetical — that's their job.  That doesn't mean that they have any illusions about what there is and isn't evidence for.  You editing your post to throw a smattering of links to random pop-science articles that aren't authoritative doesn't change anything about the current consensus.

I find it ironic that you're telling me to get off my high horse when you're the one making a claim that is at odds with the current consensus of experts in the field.  That's more a reflection on you than on me, mate.. >Dark Energy could just be a placeholder for a Universe

Now I can only imagine it as a large textureless box in a videogame that no-one remembered to actually finish. Just FYI, Hawking Radiation doesn't actually have anything to do with virtual particles. That's just the "lies we tell to children" explanation of how it works. Real Hawking radiation has as much to do with virtual particles as human reproduction has to do with birds and bees. 

The Space Time YouTube channel has some excellent videos that get much closer to the true explanation, but it's much more complicated. IIRC it's basically radiation that appears as a result of being in an accelerated reference frame with an associated horizon (the event horizon). In a local reference frame at the event horizon Hawking Radiation doesn't actually exist, but if you zoom out far enough it basically appears that the black hole has thermal radiation.. I have never understood how a black hole absorbs everything close to it and nothing can escape. Then there is radiation coming out of it..my head hurts.  I am too simple.. When one of the virtual particle pair falls into the black hole why does it count as radiation?. Hasn’t the black hole just gained a particle (the one that fell in)?.. So if the curvature is 0 does that imply that the universe is infinitely large and that our observed piece is just a minuscule part of it? Or does a curvature of 0 say nothing at all about the size and we have to rely on other measurements/lines of evidence to tell us that?. Thank you for the detailed response. Yeah, I'm personally a proponent of the Planck regime of vaccum energy, what can I say, I like the mathematical models more than the observed models (you see the math precede the observation too many times and eventually you just start assuming the math is right and we just haven't seen the full picture yet). I also like to see a fellow python coder out here, I've been having to write most things in Matlab lately and I am growing to hate the language but I digress. 

Assuming your calculations are correct (and I have little doubt that they are because you know way more about relativity than I do) I can see that this theory still leaves many gaps, but it does bring us closer to being able to fill other gaps. Assuming black holes function like furnaces (dense solid matter becomes gaseous in furnaces like how black holes take matter and convert it into space) then there could well be other sources for the missing vaccum energy outside black holes just like how a furnace isn't the only source of CO2.

To me an important discovery would be that these black holes are contributing to vaccum energy in ways we previously could not detect, and if it is doing that it could go a long way into sorting out quantum field theory's messy relationship with gravity. It may not be a cure all but it would fix a lot and maybe point us in the right direction towards fixing more.. Great, thanks. :). >You can pick your preferred spot:

Well since you edited "the amount of matter Black Holes would have consumed and reincorporated (if correct) is about the same as the energy generated by Dark Energy that caused the Universe to expand over the same time period" out of your original post I guess this is irrelevant now...

>You seem to think that "coupling" implies that the growth of the Universe drives the mass evolution BHs in a singular fashion, which is not what "coupling" means or what Friedmann implies.

If your point is that the mass accretion part of BH growth also contributes to the expansion of the universe, then sure. But it's misleading to emphasize this subdominant part when the paper mainly talks about the cosmological coupling part. Figure 2 even includes a model of SFR without accretion. 

>Bruh. This has been accepted since Hawking in 1974 and it really doesn't even require Vacuum Energy.

Hawking radiation? You're talking about Hawking radiation in the third sentence of your summary of this paper that has nothing to do with Hawking radiation? 

>The authors claim that our picture of Black Holes might be wrong. Black Holes might do more than solely compress incoming matter into a singularity. They might consume incoming matter and reincorporate its energy into the fabric of the Universe.

If this is "superficial wording" to you I guess that explains why your post is so misleading...

Take other examples, there's also statements like this

>They did this by measuring the growth in the size of Black Holes, then extrapolating the amount of energy it would have taken to grow them at their measured sizes.

That's just E=mc^2, and it's not even that much energy compared to dark energy. So what did you mean here? Am I straw manning you again?. You are absolutely correct, my bad!. Yeah, Hawking radiation is just the byproduct of the spacetime curvature gradient tending toward equilibrium over time. This is why black holes evaporate and not because virtual particles with negative mass fall past the event horizon reducing its size.. Lattice QCD doesn't even have virtual particles at all in it's formalism. If your "particle" can have negative mass it's kind of a dead give away that it's just a book keeping device.. Physics does not describe reality. Metaphysics does. Physics “just” develops predictive models.. As a previous commenter said, this isn't really thought of as a predictive model anymore, but the past sentiment was this is how black holes actually evaporate over time, because the first law inviolable. Thank you I was pondering this very question recently.  Would you happen to know where I could find some more information.?. First point is because there is no such thing as negative energy. So you have quantum fluctuations from zero and on up. 

Also, it's a debatable topic. But vacuum energy is mostly understood to not violate thermodynamics. It can't be put to use, for one.. Ok, so I may have made a small logical leap. So the masses of black holes, observationally, appear to be correlated with the expansion of the universe. Specifically they are proportional to the scale factor cubed. This correlation is only consistent with interior solutions that are primarily vacuum energy. Do these solutions not make any statements about which components result in increased mass? It sounds like they do if we can definitely say that only these solutions are consistent with a mass increase correlated with the scale factor at this ratio. 

Regardless, the mass is directly proportional to the expansion of space in three dimensions. And the source of the mass is primarily vacuum energy. And the mass increase is not due to accretion of matter. Logically, that seems to me to mean that the mass is increasing due to interior space expansion. But I guess to definitively state that, more study is required? That or it’s just outside the scope of this paper.

Either way, I think I answered my question while reading to make sure I understood. Due to the maths in Friedmann’s equations and conservation of stress-energy, black holes increasing in mass this way necessitates a proportional dark energy contribution. Now I’m curious how they can effectively be linked to the universe as a whole. Is this not a non-local interaction?. >Based on competing hypotheses that seem more likely and have supporting papers.

Seem more likely *based on what* though?  Surely you are not suggesting that just the number of papers written about it qualifies as evidence — if that were the case, I'd expect MOND to be an accepted theory of the cosmos.  :p

>Dark energy is defined as having a particular equation of state and a collection of black holes - all of them in this case - don't fulfill the same state.

Okay, it's clear to me from this sentence that you have neither read the paper, nor my original post.  This is covered in both — they derive via equations in the paper both that the additional mass from the cosmological coupling presents gravitationally as a constant energy density, and that from conservation of energy it must have a negative pressure, just like a cosmological constant would.  What is your basis for saying that it doesn't have the same equation of state?

>Just because black holes gain mass in an an expanding universe, doesn't mean that the expanding universe is causing the mass gain. Theory and experiment need to see eye to eye, especially because general relativity is so persnickety.

Again, they present empirical evidence that is consistent with their theoretical prediction which is based directly on general relativistic black hole metrics.

>The authors go on to assume that supermassive black hole growth is caused by an extrinsic source. For all we know, it could be an intrinsic feature of black holes that's not yet outlined by legacy models.

No, they don't.  They explain clearly that the coupling is based on the details of the interior region of the black hole.

>The data analysis could also be p-hacking, but until theoretical frameworks are presented, it's up for debate.

That's a pretty serious accusation.  What evidence do you have to suggest that p-hacking was involved?  The paper *presents* the theoretical framework that the prediction was made from, mate.

>It's pretty clear that their data analysis isn't too reliable. They compare vastly different datasets with vastly different techniques and even selection biases.

Isn't too reliable why?  The datasets are different, but that is in general a strength and not a weakness.  I also don't see any mention in the paper about different techniques, they state one specific technique clearly and mention that they accounted for selection bias as a part of the technique:

>>We consider five high-redshift samples, and one local sample, of elliptical galaxies given by Farrah et al. (2023). For the high-redshift samples we use: two from the WISE survey (one at $\widetilde{z}=0.75$ measured with the Hβ line, and one at $\widetilde{z}=0.85$ measured with the Mg ii line), two from the SDSS (one at $\widetilde{z}=0.75$ and one at $\widetilde{z}=0.85$, with Hβ and Mg ii, respectively), and one from the COSMOS field (at $\widetilde{z}=1.6$). We then determine the value of k needed to align each high-redshift sample with the local sample in the MBH–M* plane. If the growth in BH mass is due to cosmological coupling alone, regardless of sample redshift, the same value of k will be recovered.

>>To compute the posterior distributions in k for each combination, we apply the pipeline developed by Farrah et al. (2023), which we briefly summarize. Realizations of each galaxy sample are drawn from the sample with its reported uncertainties. The likelihood function applies the expected measurement and selection bias corrections to the realizations, as appropriate for each sample. The de-biased, and so best actual estimate, BH mass of each galaxy is then shifted to its mass at z = 0 according to Equation (1) with some value of k. Using the Epps–Singleton test, an entire high-redshift realization is then compared against a realization of the local ellipticals, where BH masses are shifted to z = 0 in the same way. The result is a probability that can be used to reject the hypothesis that the samples are drawn from the same distribution in the MBH–M* plane, i.e., that they are cosmologically coupled at this k.

Moving on,

>I'm interested in hearing what other experts in the field think of these papers. My guess is they won't be as pivotal as people are making them out to be.

Maybe, maybe not.  The only two that are apparent to me so far on this thread are [this one](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1137nph/scientists_find_first_evidence_that_black_holes/j8qce59/) (which is just asking for clarification about a detail from a cited paper) and [this one](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/1137nph/scientists_find_first_evidence_that_black_holes/j8tyjbo/) (which agrees that the paper is very clear and straightforward).  But the criticisms you're giving here in this post are frankly way off base, and make it pretty obvious that you didn't bother to read the paper before criticizing it in the first place .... interesting!  thanks!. I find it amusing that you find it ironic. I am the expert. I am the one that knocks. What's your astrophysics education?

But sure fine you win. Consensus expansion forever... how boring. I prefer to think outside the box, (not outside of physics).

Say the universe is a balloon and the galaxies don the surface of the balloon. The black holes feed the inside of the balloon, converting information into pressure within, pushing the galaxies outwards from each other. Imagine the pressure in the balloon gets so large that a barrier bursts, a new process begins, the information is lost to another dimension and the surface collapses into itself. I'll be laughing when it happens. She was rejected by the university because of her gender... went on to win two Nobel Prizes. Happy birthday Marie Curie (152nd anniversary biography). nan. Discovered radioactivity and died from radioactivity. She truly dedicated her life to science. 

https://www.biography.com/scientist/marie-curie. Mad respect for her and for her husband, Pierre. Who jeopardised career and reputation to stand by his wife until his death. A couple in love vs the world.

Also of interest is the [lovely letter Einstein wrote to Marie](http://i.imgur.com/cmdK2TB.jpg) during a period when she was involved in a romantic scandal of sorts.. Happy Birthday Marie Curie.

-1st woman to win Nobel Prize.
-1st person to win 2 Nobel Prize (Physics & Chemistry)
- the only person to be awarded the Nobel Prize twice in two different science categories.. People who wish to open the lead-lined boxes containing Marie's manuscripts must do so in protective clothing.

Pierre Curie, after observing burns on his arm left by the chunk of  radium that he tied to it for 10 hours, concluded that he had discovered  a cure for cancer.. Can you imagine how much more progress humans could have made in the last 4,000 years if they hadn't spent so much time excluding other people?. Fun fact: Not known to many that she was also Polish (Maria Skłodowska). 
She migrated to France to study where she married french scientist Peter Curie.
 
When leaving Poland she made a pact with her sister Bronisława (who also wanted to pursue university career) to go first, get degree and well paid job, then finance her sister’s education. While Marie was studying, Bronisława worked as teacher back in Poland and was financially supporting Maria. In exchange, Maria took positions as governess for two years assisting her sister during her medical studies.

More on: 
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie_Curie. That is glowing praise.. My heroine!!. Amazing woman. She is such an inspiration to me.. Angry poles incoming... 

You see them approching in the distance getting redder and redder... 

You can now distinguish their mouths getting twisted and little foam in the corner...

"SKŁODOWSKA ! she was polish you know. "

And that my friends is what you will hear as a french person in the first days in poland. :D.  she such an inspiration......

I hope she is forever remembered.  Although forced to study science in secret at **a** clandestine “Floating **University**” in **her** native Poland—since the **universities** refused to admit women—**Curie** (**born Marie** Salomea Sklodowska in 1867) would achieve such renown in **her** field that **she** was awarded not one, but **two Nobel Prizes**. I heard somewhere her office is still quarantined to this day. she not only named at least one element, she had one named after her. and now anyone who looks at a periodic table will see her.. Only two nobel prizes?  Pfft, that's just two more than me!. (Respect). DOUBLE NOBEL PRIZE 2 TIME WORLD CHAMP UNCONTESTED. She’s the most badass women I ever know. [removed]. A bit counter-intuitivelly, but her case really shows how overblown our fear of radiation is. She has been exposed to, what we today consider very unsafe, doses of ionising radiation her entire adult life. She has handled radioactive isotopes, which were highly chemically toxic as well without any safety measures and with very little precaution. Her entire working area was heavily contaminated and she almost certainly ingested quite a bit of contaminants as well.

In the end, she died at age of 66, which was probably better than average life expectancy at that time. And she didn't even die from cancer in the end.. That's so sweet. I like Einstein now (as a person). [deleted]. How “hot” are the manuscripts?. >Pierre Curie, after observing burns on his arm left by the chunk of radium that he tied to it for 10 hours, concluded that he had discovered a cure for cancer.

He's not necessarily wrong, though.. Yep it's really insane. Until very recently basically 99 percent of humanity worked there ass off on a farm every day of there life, received no education, and had no opportunity. 

If we can finish the job and lift all 7 billion people out of poverty and avoid destroying ourselves, the future will of the human race will be unlimited potential.. Possibly very little. Imagine if in every conference on particle physics we had to listen to countless people with no knowledge about the issue whatsoever discussing how particle accelerators would collapse the 5th dimension.. Or waging war. Imagine the funding.. well, until very recently in human history, it was was necessary to have people do the 'simple' tasks so it would not have been an option to include everyone in science.

in contrast to that, we are today at a point where pointless work is created artifically as to not disrupt the status-quo of the 40 hours work week and those who profit from it.. I'm surprised (though I assume you are right if you say so) that this is "not known to many". I mean that's why Polonium is called "Polonium". That she was Polish is something that stuck in my head as a child, but maybe I was unusual.. >she was also Polish

Also? She was Polish first and foremost. She didn’t even consider herself French, she just had a French citizenship she got after marrying a French dude. Wow, that's really incredible. What a talented and driven family!. Can you blame them?. I think some of her research materials and papers are. Bertha Benz gives her a run for her money. Huh I assumed she died from long term radiation poisoning. How did she die if it's not cancer? 
  
Also how bad was it compared to chernobyl, as in the proportion of her exposure compared to those exposed in xherbybol?. > which was probably better than average life expectancy at that time.

This is a common misconception. If you made it past 5 years old life expectancy hasn't changed that much. 66 is a little on the young side today, it wouldn't have been much different in Marie Curie's time. 70 - 80 would have been very common and 100 fairly rare but certainly not unheard of, very similar to today.. Aye, but I was under the impression that radiation increased the chance of cell mutation, which means she could have easily gotten lucky and be on the far end of a spectrum. Plus it's a sample of 1. What am I missing?. Isn't one of the issues with high exposure to radiation is that it can cause permanent genetic mutations. 

So, the risks to a group of people /children who may reproduce later on is far higher.. >but her case really shows how overblown our fear of radiation is.

I can't believe you have so many upvotes. Shocking.. You should read up on the politics of Einstein, he was very enlightened (in my eyes).. From what I've read and seen online, he was a shit father and husband, but a genius in many other ways. Nobody is perfect, he did his best in his time with what was given to him, and he was a really smart guy.. All sources I've read say that the Curies had a happy, affectionate marriage, and they were known for their devotion to each other.. I am surprised that anyone still wants to look at the radioactive manuscripts. Surely they have been photographed many times and available on the Net?

Edit: yes of course her manuscripts are all over the Net!. Sadly people need to be in poverty so that we in the developed world can enjoy the lifestyle we do. You say we just need to finish the job, but in my mind we've barely started. The people of the future will be fighting for rights we can't even conceive of today.. Oh no i get it is just French people never denied her polishness :D. Of course ! There are many women who have made great advances!

However the reason I admire Curie was that she faced a lot on the personal front. Starting from sexism, widowhood and dying painfully. Yes, she did die from chronic radiation poisoning. She died from aplastic anemia, i.e. her body was not producing enough red blood cells. This is something that is treatable today.

What I was trying to say is that despite receiving such large doses of radiation throughout most of her life she has gotten to live to decently old age, especially for that time (what was life expectancy for a woman in 1934?) and she didn't get cancer.

Edit: I forgot to address your question about Chernobyl. The general public would have been exposed nowhere close to that even if not evacuated.. > This is a common misconception. If you made it past 5 years old life expectancy hasn't changed that much. 

Wrong. The average life expectancy, for females at age 10 (in the western world), has increased 17 years between 1912 and 2012. I'd say that's a lot. See my reply to MaxThrustage for source.. If you were alive at 60 in the 1930s, you were expected to live until 73-74 years old. So she most likely lost 8 years of her life expectancy. Smoking, for example, reduces your life expectancy by 10 years on average. Alcohol can reduce your life expectancy even more than that. So, even these massive doses of radiation have effects that are well below risks that many of us take every day without giving much thought about it.. > Aye, but I was under the impression that radiation increased the chance of cell mutation

It is not so simple due to two things: 1. we have defensive mechanisms that activate when cell enters a stress state to repair damage - after all life on Earth evolved surrounded in radiation, 2. cancer cells are more sensitive to ionizing radiation than regular healthy cells. Taken all together, small radiation doses might as well have no effect or even a beneficial effect (something called radiation hormesis, which is unproven hypothesis in general but there are some experiments that show it shouldn't be completely ruled out).

In general, it is very unclear what happens for doses less than 100mSv - to give you an idea how much that is, annual dose we normally receive from natural sources, medical procedures etc. on average is something around 5mSv. For safety measures something called linear no-threshold theory (LNT) is used, which linearly extrapolates effects from high doses of radiation to low doses of radiation, but it is very difficult to obtain the data to confirm that at low doses, since cancer rates according to LNT would be so low that it would be very difficult to distinguish them from statistical noise.. Nothing like that was ever observed, and there was plenty of data to look at. There are survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings. There were people around Chernobyl power plant and liquidators who were cleaning up the mess. They were all carefully tracked and studied and such effects were simply not there.

If you have some time I advise you watch this lecture by prof. Gerry Thomas who is one of leading researchers into health effects of Chernobyl accident

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOvHxX5wMa8. Because I think this is a really good example. General public is convinced that radiation is some unimaginable world-ending horror that cannot be compared to anything else. But Marie Curie lived her life exposed to enormous doses of radiation. The doses far higher than general public would be exposed to even in the case of the worst nuclear accident.

In the end, she lived to be 66. In general, in 1930s, if you were alive at 60, you would live on average 13-14 years more. So, these massive radiation doses have cut her life most likely by around 8 years. For example, smoking cuts your life expectancy by 10 years on average. Alcohol can cut your life expectancy by up to 12 years. Living in London compared to English countryside cuts your life expectancy by 4 years. And in case of worst nuclear accident that has happened - Chernobyl, according to very conservative estimates, the most exposed population - people living next to the plant, would have lost 11 months of life expectancy on average if they were not evacuated and they spent the rest of their life next to the ruins of the plant.. Thanks for the rec. I'll check it out.. Is that a book ?. That's why I said, "as a person". Plus, the fact that he took a lover who was less than half his age didn't sit well with me either. Except for the one year that she was fucking a married man. That's not how it works, wealth isn't a zero sum game.. Not true:) they are already being lifted up. Could go a bit faster though, so get out there and help;). Woah that was interesting, and ye it was quite an old age to live to to. Firstly, average and median are two different things. I'd imagine the bell curve for all-cause mortality was not perfectly bell-shaped and symmetric. And I bet average all-cause mortality for an upper-middle class person was higher.  And then there's the fact she's a female. And then there's the fact that she's highly educated and an intelligent research scientist.... I'd say her life was cut short by at least 20 years, if not more.. Thank you for the resource.. >General public is convinced that radiation is some unimaginable world-ending horror that cannot be compared to anything else.

It's science that matters. Not the general public's opinion.

What you are saying completely contradicts the science and facts about radiation.

It's hand wavy nonsense and you haven't backed up anything you said with any scientific fact or data.

I can't believe I'm reading this in r/Physics because usually people are very knowledgeable here.

I don't know where to start.. ["Why Socialism?"](https://monthlyreview.org/2009/05/01/why-socialism/) by Einstein in 1949. 

>The result of these developments is an oligarchy of private capital the enormous power of which cannot be effectively checked even by a democratically organized political society. This is true since the members of legislative bodies are selected by political parties, largely financed or otherwise influenced by private capitalists who, for all practical purposes, separate the electorate from the legislature. The consequence is that the representatives of the people do not in fact sufficiently protect the interests of the underprivileged sections of the population.

>Moreover, under existing conditions, private capitalists inevitably control, directly or indirectly, the main sources of information (press, radio, education). It is thus extremely difficult, and indeed in most cases quite impossible, for the individual citizen to come to objective conclusions and to make intelligent use of his political rights.. You can just read the wikipedia article on the politics of Einstein for starters. I'm sure there are dozens of books that talk about the man.. What's the story with his young lover? I hadn't heard of that and can't find much from Google.. >  the fact that he took a lover who was less than half his age didn't sit well with me either

Yeah that's crazy, how do men dare liking young women?. I'm objecting to how wealth is distributed, not how it is generated. Not the size of the pie, but how the pie is cut up.. The number of people whose daily income is below some arbitrary line is decreasing, yes. 

By some metric, poverty is getting better, by others, it's getting worse. It's a complicated topic. 

Here's an interesting article: http://theconversation.com/why-the-world-banks-optimism-about-global-poverty-misses-the-point-104963. I should point out that even though the life expectancy for someone born in the 1860's would have been about 30, 66 is still not really an old age to live to. Life expectancy is very low in the past due to high rates of infant mortality, currently preventable diseases and violent deaths. If you avoid any of those three, people could (and did) live well into their 70s and 80s, even in ancient times (Socrates was in his 70s when he died).

There's also the fact chronic radiation poisoning and acute radiation poisoning are quite different. Acute radiation poisoning, due to a very high dose all at once, is what made Chernobyl so terrifying.

But the point still stands that her radiation exposure was *enormous* compared to what anyone today is exposed to.. > It's hand wavy nonsense and you haven't backed up anything you said with any scientific fact or data.

You are welcome to read these papers

https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/process-safety-and-environmental-protection/vol/112/part/PA

In particular this paper

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0957582017300782

where my numbers come from.. Thanks for the link !!.  Roger Moore stopped being James Bond was because of how much older he was than his female co-stars. He was in his 50s, and they were in their 20s. In his own words: “Well, the leading ladies were young enough to be my grand-daughter and it becomes disgusting.”. Is this really gonna be the hill you choose to die on?. >Sadly people need to be in poverty so that we in the developed world can enjoy the lifestyle we do.

>I'm objecting to how wealth is distributed, not how it is generated. Not the size of the pie, but how the pie is cut up.

What? You said there must be people in poverty so that others can be in wealth. That's wrong. If the pie is big enough and split, nobody is poor.. Here is a graph that represents the overall distribution instead of just picking an arbitrary poverty line. It shows pretty clearly that that each cohort is moving in the right direction.

https://ourworldindata.org/uploads/2013/12/Global-inequality-in-1800-1975-and-2015.png. Not to mention that for women, childbirth was high on the list for causes of death of those dying young.. > If you avoid any of those three, people could (and did) live well into their 70s and 80s, even in ancient times (Socrates was in his 70s when he died). 

I hate to be nit picky, but there is this meme going around on reddit (I'm not accusing you of perpetuating it) that pre modern humans lived similar life spans as modern humans if you account of infant mortality. This is easily disproved by looking at life tables for different decades and seeing how much the life expectancy **at 65** has changed.

For example, looking at this [life table](https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/lifeexpectancies/bulletins/englishlifetablesno17/2015-09-01) for England. In 1912 Marie Curie was 45 years old, the table would give her life expectancy at that age as \~ 70. She lived till 66 which is pretty close.

If she was 45 today she'd be expected to live till 84. That's a substantial increase in life expectancy, that has nothing to do with infant mortality.. It's all the other assumptions you make that I have a problem with.

They are completely contradictory to the science and not based on fact.

Chernobyl's effects were well documented. Deaths, cancer, birth defects ect...we have the figures for that.

So were Marie Curie's experiments btw. We know exactly the kind of dosage she received and over what time frames (which is important). She ultimately died from radiation related illness. Average lifespan is meaning in a age with so much poverty.

&#x200B;

But I've read your other comments and I know it's pointless talking to you because your argument is so circular.

&#x200B;

I'm just so sad people listened to you because I thought this was a forum for learning. What you shared is a misinformed opinion piece.. Well he's a puritan Englishman, to each their own.. I'm sorry if I offended you, u/mofo69extreme. TIL everyone is rich now because everyone has access to iron and bronze, gone is the era of stone age poverty!

Jokes aside, we need to establish what we mean by 'rich' and 'poor'.

Let's set aside the ethics of denying someone a seat at the table because they're fed enough table scraps.. The source of the data from that graph comes from a biased source, Gapminder, which is aligned with the UN and it's goals. They will be the first one's to say something is going well and the last to say it's not.

We need to be careful with socioeconomic 'statistics', things aren't as rigorous and transparent as in physics. This might be an interesting read: https://jacobinmag.com/2019/02/steven-pinker-global-poverty-neoliberalism-progress. I don't mean to imply it is all infant mortality. There are a bunch of other factors (as I mentioned, a lot is due to currently preventable diseases). But life expectancies are always just averages -- it's not like if the life expectancy is 60 then you get to the age of 60 and go "well, I expect I'm going to die now" despite being in good health.

I guess I wanted to make it clear that she would have lived longer if she didn't have chronic radiation poisoning. That's *also* a bit of a meme going around, where people downplay the dangers of radiation as sort of overcorrection of the irrational public fear. In a physics subreddit, I think we all now that the usual panic is ridiculous. But I occasionally hear people talking as if there is *no* danger at all, which is also false.. I'm glad I found your comments :). > They are completely contradictory to the science and not based on fact.
> Chernobyl's effects were well documented. Deaths, cancer, birth defects ect...we have the figures for that.

Yes those effects were documented and if you bothered to actually read and understand what those documents are saying you would find it quite surprising. 

Since you are mentioning science so much, maybe you should be bothered to actually check what science actually says, instead of relying on mass media's perception of what science says. I can help you to start. UNSCEAR is an authoritative body of UN that periodically reviews all published research on Chernobyl and Fukushima accidents and compiles the reports. Here are the UNSCEAR reports on [Chernobyl](https://www.unscear.org/docs/reports/2008/11-80076_Report_2008_Annex_D.pdf) and [Fukushima](https://www.unscear.org/docs/publications/2016/UNSCEAR_WP_2016.pdf) 

If you are not the reading type, here is a lecture of prof. Gerry Thomas of Imperial College, one of the leading researchers into health effects of Chernobyl accident.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOvHxX5wMa8. Obviously. Hi sorry if i offended you, u/mofo69extreme, I'm dad.. We all have access to iron and bronze? Where can I just go start mining some ores without buying the property and being cleared to extract?

You seem like a great person headed in the right direction, but you need to go outside and experience more and talk to more people that you normally wouldn’t.. I really don't like that this conversation has got to the point where we just don't believe each-others source but here we go.

You just linked to a self described Marxist magazine. There entire worldview/ideology would be overturned (atleast greatly challenged) if it turned out to be true that much of the world poor has improved there condition over the last 30 years. I think they are much more biased then the UN when it comes to this issue. The UN has a lot of problems but being married to a specific hypothesis/ideology is not one of them. This is like if you were to dispute the UN's global warming data by linking to a Koch brothers funded magazine.

The specific author of that article 'Jason Hickel' has argued for a long time that not only are the global poor not improving there lot, but that pre-industrial and maybe even pre-agricultural humans were better off than humans now (even in the rich world!) To me, this is an absurd argument and even though he has a lot of Jacobin and Guardian op-eds, he has little to no support in the peer reviewed world. It would be like interviewing the 1 percent of 'climate scientists' who don't believe in global warming (or even worse since Hickel is not an economist but an anthropologist).. I was baffled how someone could think gap minder is fake news on the topic of global poverty, but then came the jacobinmag link.

As a progressive all I can say is people like Jason Hickel are revolting in how they view the global poor. A return to some sort of neo-pastoralism is most definitely NOT the future the global poor are hoping to leave to their children, and it's absolutely garbage for someone to sit in a high income nation, doing the lecture podium tour, while voicing such attitudes. People in low income nations are worried about their f(\*&)ing kids dying of treatable disease or even straight up starving, not these abstract notions of "a good life" from the privileged.. Heh, you get no objections from my side :-). Sorry if I come across as an A-hole.

I don't mean to offend anyone.

Just a bit surprised at what I was reading here.

Perhaps I'll sleep on it and formulate a proper response.

I just think the other guy is making light of the situation with a lot of wishy washy thinking.

Again sorry for ranting and not really going anywhere with it myself.. What does any of this have to do with Marie Curie's death due to aplastic anemia as a result from her research?. bad bot. > You seem like a great person headed in the right direction, but you need to go outside and experience more and talk to more people that you normally wouldn’t.

I would say the same in reverse. 

In the developed we are swimming in propaganda, propaganda that justified our centuries long rape of the developing world. Things are improving because children can sift through our garbage and fish out heavy metals, refine them and sell them back to us for a shiny $2 coin! Previously he didn't have that coin, see, things are really improving!

I'm too jaded to be an idealist.. > There entire worldview/ideology would be overturned (atleast greatly challenged) if it turned out to be true that much of the world poor has improved there condition over the last 30 years. 

Absolutely not, as most of this change has happened in China. Which was initially a Communist country and is now a bizarre hybrid. If we ask the Chinese what to credit for their development, they will credit Marxism (not neoliberal capitalism).

> The UN has a lot of problems but being married to a specific hypothesis/ideology is not one of them. This is like if you were to dispute the UN's global warming data by linking to a Koch brothers funded magazine.

I disagree. The UN has explicit goals in the case of socioeconomic development and no such goals when it comes to climate change. The issue with the Koch brother magazine is their conflicts of interest, whereas your issue with my source is that it's a Marxist source. That's not a conflict of interest, just a difference in ideology.

There's also the fact that economic 'science' and climate science are two very different beasts. One is open to a lot more interpretation than the other.

>The specific author of that article 'Jason Hickel' has argued for a long time that not only are the global poor not improving there lot, but that pre-industrial and maybe even pre-agricultural humans were better off than humans now

They were. Go to Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos etc. You will see ex-farmers working for a pittance on rubber plantations, children sifting through piles of garbage (exported by the West) to find the valuable bits of scrap. Their cash income may be higher, but their suffering is much higher. They were better off as subsistence farmers.. I'm not saying gap minder is 'fake news', I'm saying they put a spin on things, every news source does.

I lived in a low income country (Sri Lanka) for a few years of my life, it helped shape my perspective on things.

> People in low income nations are worried about their f(*&)ing kids dying of treatable disease or even straight up starving, not these abstract notions of "a good life" from the privileged.

This is true for people living in extreme poverty. It's interesting how the number of people living below the poverty line is decreasing, yet in many parts of the world hunger is increasing. They have more money yet are having a harder time feeding themselves, hmm.. Nothing directly. I was just responding to your comments in order to substantiate the numbers I was using.

I have originally posted on this topic because I thought this was a good example that shows how irrational our fear of radiation was. Marie Curie was someone who received massive doses of radiation throughout her lifetime. That has resulted in cutting her life expectancy by 8 years. Smoking cuts your life expectancy by 10 years. One thing is considered unimaginably scary, the other thing nobody bats an eye about.. dont listen to this clown. He does coke and MDMA. God knows whats floating in the salt water around his brain.. Haha no I don't lol.
Sorry you read my comment history and didn't get our Irish humor.

Read those comments again. That was a conversation between Irish people. We were talking about tea bags lmao. 

Tea bags dude. Its was a joke. I don't even drink alcohol. 

Pro tip: if an Irishman speaks he's usually being sarcastic or generally joking around.

Edit: Tell me what qualifications do you have?. Anyway he's straight up wrong about radiation and its effects.

What he said was based on his opinion and not science.. I'm not going to encourage your childish behavior by debating this any further, nor will I submit to your argument from authority. The truth is a degree is meaningless when discussing the affects of radiation. Go ask a doctor.. We can withstand much more radiation than you might think. The allowed amount for a facility worker in a reactor bay for just a year, is nearly 100x more that an average human experiences in their life. And yet, there is no spike in cancer and early deaths. The main problem with radiation is its contamination of all things around it. That is usually what kills everyone.. Than who thinks?

I guarantee I'm more qualified on the subject than you.. probably not. you may address me as admiral Some beers my parents bought me as a gift for finishing exams. nan. Ellison makes a beer called [Relativity](https://www.beeradvocate.com/beer/profile/42597/223877/). Great beer, you should add to your set.  I'll send ya one if you care enough!. Well, are they any good?. [deleted]. 3.5% on the amber - oof Ill take a crab juice. Haha, one of the people who brews this taught me physics at school
. Honestly thought I was in r/beer. Congrats on finishing exams OP, hope the beer was delicious!. I am markedly distraught that this is only in England. What brewery??. Some great beers, most, if not all from there are though. Thankfully had the chance to meet the guys at the brewery in my time doing physics at Hull uni. A great bunch of people too.. I'm ashamed to say I dont know the two middle ones... Lovely stuff, this is brewed in my hometown and they've just opened their own pub.. TIL IPA doesn't always mean isopropyl alcohol. Science is my favourite flavour. That first and last beer taste both amazing and horrible at the same time until you try it, then it probably just tastes horrible.. The white one is both alcoholic and non-alcoholic until you open it. They should make one called "Ethanol" and have it be just %100 ethanol.. But what did they taste like?. These are so \-F\-ing cool!. There's a science themed brewery in Oregon called Bunsenbrewer . You try them yet? What was your favorite?. You could serve these in a physics-themed pub.... call it the h-bar.. lol 3.5%.  . So left and right are the same thing then.. How do you know that's 3.5% US Amber?. How does the Schrödinger’s cat taste lol! . Awesome, that’s something my mom would do too lmfao.. I recently had Hop Valley’s Alpha Centauri IPA. It was excellent. . Heh. It says “A to M”. Enjoy. . Want. Atomic Parenfs. Were you doing IB?. Well done!. Cheapskates.  . I really like their Zymology kettle sour. Not quite as appropriate though.. That Schrödinger's cat sounds delicious. Quick! Tell us what's inside the can. Exams for physics start in 3 days and end in like 14, everything done in the past 2 years... And I can't bring myself to revise..... /r/hailcorporate. googles 'physic phrases'. Ergh meaningless use of physics buzzwords annoys me greatly. Dibs!. This post should be removed, it promotes no scientific discussion. It would fit better in another subreddit.. When I went off to college many moons ago, my parents helped me move into my door room, and gave me a bottle of campaign before they left. It was awful, I hate campaign. Months later I came back to my dorm room from Christmas break to find a ticket issued by the campus police for underage drinking, open intoxicants, and some other crap, not sure of what it all was. Hundreds of dollars in fines. 

I called the campus police and they said they searched all the dorm rooms during breaks, we did not own them or have any expectation of privacy. I should not be breaking the law. They also explained that this was all at the behest of the hall director, I'd have to take any appeals I had with him.

So I go down to the hall directors office, a place I'd never been before, and was immediately struck by the fact that his office was larger than any dorm room in the building by at least a factor of 2, and it was an office for 1 person. It even had a waiting room with a secretary... imagine the lady you'd pick to play a mean cranky secretary in a cheesy movie... she looked like that. I came walking in with the ticket in hand and she just frowned, like I was the 100th person to bother her with this bullshit that day, and said "You have no expectation in the dorms. That is part of the dorm agreement, if you didn't break the law, you wouldn't be in this predicament, there are no appeals."

and I said "Yea, this is a ticket for underage drinking" and she said "Like I said, you shouldn't have broke the law..." and I said "The bottle was empty" and she said "It doesn't matter, it's evidence of a crime..." but I jumped in "...and I'm 22..." and she just looked at me for a long time... "You're going to have to wait over there... the director is busy" and pointed at a chair.

So I waited for a while and then stood up "This is fucking bullshit. I'm not waiting here because you people are morons." she clearly didn't want me in there either and said "Fine, there's a photocopier over there, just photocopy your drivers license and I'll give it to him when he gets out of his meeting." 

So I went over the photo copier, put my license on it, put my middle finger right next to it, made the copy, and then handed it to her and left.

...and yes, I was eventually thrown out of the dorms. There was so much shit like that going on all the time, that eventually I just could help myself but troll them. I ended up in court a number of times with the campus police, those fuckers were basically above the law. If you think regular city police is fucked up, look up campus police sometime. How that's constitutional I'll never understand. . In the schrodinger cat beer, how can you be certain there's beer in there before you pick it up???? . Not a lot of creativity in the can art. Every single one is the same pattern of particle tracks. Still looks cool though. . ATOM != Pulsar 

So triggered right now >:( . Hey, is the Schrödinger's Cat can full or empty?. I'll have to check it out, thanks for the recommendation! 
. Just don't use it in a drinking contest or it's going to be a nightmare working out who finished theirs first!. Name checks out. . And Two Brothers (based in Warrenville, IL right next to Fermilab) makes a beer called [Atom Smasher](https://www.beeradvocate.com/beer/profile/689/61554/).. It would make a fine addition to his collection.. Would you send me one ;). I need them . Just had the quantum state one, really nice, citrus-y and refreshing. Onto the Phobos and Deimos one, not a big fan of Rye ales but this one is nice. Wouldn't it be "buzzed and not buzzed"?. I'm curious how it is... I've never seen an abv that low.. For real. Is that for people who find Mike’s too strong?. Ha, Niall! Good luck on the exams! Cheers Atom. I am markedly delighted - but they have an e-mail on their site, so being a microbrewery it might be possible to order some to be shipped to your country. Worth a go anyway if you're willing to pay for shipping.. [http://www.atombeers.com/#ourbeer](http://www.atombeers.com/#ourbeer). Both are astronomy-related. Phobos and Deimos are moons of Mars. A pulsar is a type of neutron star. . As a professional brewer, I use isopropyl every day and have never seen or ever considered abbreviating it IPA. Kinda makes sense. Your perspective is the exact opposite of mine! . Not a problem drinker, just a beer enthusiast!. Atoms. That’s about 4.375 by volume . You can't know without drinking it.. _gatekeeping intensifies?_. If one person looks up what a pulsar is after seeing it on their beer can, I think we can call that a win.. Who....cares?

Sometimes the really popular,shallow things make people delve deeper, i'm fine with that. . I don't know, man - a Pulsar Pilsner is a pretty great name, if you ask me.. Come on. Just because you don't see the interest doesn't mean someone else doesn't. Don't be so rude about it. You should probably call it a win if someone even finds an interest in it. The point is to get science out there and across to society so an interest can develop. You don't have to have a fucking PhD to be interested. Get off your high horse. You don't own the subject or profession. Anyone can join. So why not boost interest to bring more to the game of the wonderful universe of Physics!. I also am a physics, but I don't care if people hype my field

Anything that'll increase public funding is a-ok. That's how beers are named. Meaningless buzzwords. They don't correspond to the content of the beer, they're just supposed to sound cool. **ONLY NERDS GET THESE BEER NAMES**. in my muonic opinion i invariantly agree with your anyon assessment of this superposition. Incorrect. The yeast is in a superimposed state of being both alive and dead til you crack the cold one. Ah, yes, I forgot about the rule where brewers are required to name their beers things that are synonymous with the name of the brewery. . deleted  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.7260  [^^^What ^^^is ^^^this?](https://pastebin.com/FcrFs94k/84299). relative simultaneity still fucks with my head.. The worst part is the faster they drink it, the longer the can gets. . You? No.

I joke, but if you want one, pay $5 and I'll send you one, just message me. . I hope you chugged the Quantum State. That beer should always be full or empty, and never in between.. You can't measure the flavor of the quantum without changing the result.. Thought of the greek gods of fear and terror, fitting for the examns. Or neither buzzed nor not buzzed, depending on your taste for descriptions. And your taste for beer. . [One of the best selling beers in Australia](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/XXXX Gold), year after year, is 3.5%. 

Mid and low alcohol beer is huuuge down here.. Only time I've seen it that low is either because it's required due to bullshit state laws (UT, OK) or because it's a table beer like Jester King's Le Petit Prince.. You must be blind. ABV ranges from 0% to 100%.. British beers are on average lower abv than American.  usually between 3 and 4 percent rather than 4 to 6 percent in America. If you're driving beer just for the audition content, why not just drink liquor? There's a huge range of possible ABVs in beer.. [There's a word for those kind of people.](https://youtu.be/G2nTbqbtGug). [deleted]. >Pulsar

>Classic German pilsner

German pilsners aren't classic. Only our Czech ones are. We invented the art of the pilsner, they're even named after the city Pilsen.. And we can keep exploring https://deepskyvineyard.com/our-wine/. I work with IPA all the time in the lab, and drink IPA when I get home.

...no mix ups so far.. Yea in my chemistry lab it’s abbreviated (*i*-pr) similar to *tert*-butyl (*t*-butyl) or sec- butyl (*s*-butyl) if it’s a straight chain molecule we put an “n” n-propyl or n-butyl but I guess the alcohol would be EtOH (ethanol) MeOH (methanol) i-PrOH(iso-propanol). Oh I thought it was unobservable.  . My thoughts exactly, they're just using the words and phrases to differentiate them and by the sounds of it the brewers have a background in physics. If it gets one person to have a Google (or even read the description on the can) and learn a bit of physics it's a good thing.
. This is so sweet and very true. :) . Well, except maybe [delirium tremens](https://www.ratebeer.com/beer/delirium-tremens/1039/).. From the sidebar:

> #Discouraged or not allowed

> ###Images and meme posts

> Image-only posts should be on-topic and should promote discussion. Memes, rage comics, image macros, reaction gifs, or otherwise "zero-content" submissions are not allowed.

> Consider posting to /r/PhysicsJokes, /r/PhysicsGifs, /r/PhysicsMemes, or /r/ScienceImages instead.

But, the mods here are rather inactive or unwilling to remove high-scoring posts.. Until you open it, it's in a superposition of all states between full and empty, inclusive . Could be worst. Alcohol turns in to water.. The current level of that beer is probabilistic.... This is the first physics joke to truly make me laugh out loud and not just awkwardly sniff. Interesting that the superposition coefficients give it only a 4.2% chance of being a Session IPA. I wonder what the expectation value is? What operator do you use to measure this? I propose the CHUG operator (C hat). **XXXX Gold**

XXXX Gold is one of the many beers manufactured in the Australian state of Queensland by Castlemaine Perkins and is one of Australia's most popular beers. XXXX Gold is also produced in the Boag's Brewery in Launceston, Tasmania. XXXX Gold is a sponsor of the Queensland Bulls and the QLD, SA, ACT & NT Cricket Associations. XXXX Gold previously sponsored the Australian V8 Supercars Championship Series from 2008 to 2011, as well as the Professional Bull Riders' (PBR) Australian branch.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. If you're ever in Australia, drink anything else, it's swill.. Not for beer.. But you knew that. . No shit. If only there was some sort of context to my comment.. like the fact it was in response to a picture of beer... But...it’s a US Amber.... Honestly, I'm not sure that this is accurate. All the common British lagers I just Googled were between 4% and 5%. Bitter is normally between about 4% and 6%.. I would say for a traditional British beer you're looking at centered around the 4% mark. I'd expect to see 3.8% as much as 4.2%.

Plenty of strong beers here if you want them, but the above would be the *traditional* sort. That said, there's an old pub I go to when I'm down in Cornwall (building itself dates back to 1400s, brewing on site there dates back to the early 1600s) that brews it's own beer and the "Middle" they serve is the oldest beer they still do at 5% and was apparently served around the first world war: http://www.spingoales.com/Brewery.html. [Tactical Nuclear Penguin](https://www.brewdog.com/lowdown/blog/the-worlds-strongest-beer-tactical-nuclear-penguin) balances it out. (Although I've never had it personally, and most beers over about 10% just tastes like gone-off marmite imo so I doubt I'd like it).

But I'd say normal range of common drinks in a British pub is about 3.8%-5.6%. Because I like beer and alcohol but don’t want to drink 5 in one sitting. . Make internet friends with someone who lives near there. . German pilsner is a sub style of pilsner. Classic is being used in the sense of it being a replication of that exact style, with no real deviations from the definition.. Oh wow did you take orgo 1. This image is on topic and people are having a discussion hence my previous reply
. Nah dawg, that's the beer on the far left.. It be funny if some cans is only loaded with weight.. I live there - I know this. 

Gold cans are so bad they make XXXX Bitter seem like a good beer. . American is usually added to a style name now when the beer is hoppier than the traditional style ie. American stout, American pale ale ect.. So drink something stronger?

edit: like this isn't a beer you'd drink to get drunk lmao; there's no reason to make fun of it because... what, it doesn't feel manly enough to you?. [deleted]. Well isn’t that where nomenclature is first taught? I was just making a statement, shame if you were trying to be facetious. :). Both represent superpositions; an uncertainty of state until measured.. I figured you knew, my comment was more for future visitors.. To expand on this a bit: Amber ale is a style designation used in the US and Canada but not often in Britain (traditionally). Basically, taking a pale ale recipe and adding crystal malt (or some other non-pale malt) will give you an amber ale. Some are hoppy (most craft examples these days tend to be hoppy), others aren't (Fat Tire adds some toasted malt and keeps the hops mellow).

In the case of this British brewery, calling it "US Amber" just clarifies that it's not a traditionally British style beer. It's an American-style amber ale. It could also differentiate from Australian amber ales, but I don't know much about them, so I couldn't say for sure.. Banned?

https://www.reddit.com/r/beertrade/. Right. It's the same thing, one just has a cat as a test to determine the state of the thing. 

Right?. Gotta collapse that wave function yo. . My bad. . I think it's actually much more basic than that, American pale/amber/stout will use hops and malt that originate from America, same with 'new-world' beers, hops and malts from Australia and NZ. I could be wrong but that's always been my understanding, worked in a craft beer bar for a couple of years. TIL. TL:DR : No. I am so upset I missed out on this subreddit. Beer. The cause of, and solution to, all of life's problems.  The 2020 Ig Nobel prize in physics is awarded to Ivan Maksymov and Andriy Pototsky for determining, experimentally, what happens to the shape of a living earthworm when one vibrates the earthworm at high frequency. nan. These guys never grew up from using a magnifying glass on ants. Guys, just read about it. Ig Nobel research is not "pointless". The entire idea is to reward seemingly wacky research that turns out to be fundamentally interesting. 

>The ability to excite nonlinear subharmonic body waves in a living organism could be used to probe, and potentially to control, important biophysical processes such as the propagation of nerve impulses, thereby opening up avenues for addressing biological questions of fundamental impact.

From the abstract of the paper.. This could lead to a break through in worm whole physics. Praytell. What does happen when you wiggle a worm at high frequency. They used the worm vibrator and it got the worm off.. Continuing the trend of awarding the prize for biophysics results...

The text citation:
> **PHYSICS PRIZE** [AUSTRALIA, UKRAINE, FRANCE, ITALY, GERMANY, UK, SOUTH AFRICA]

>Ivan Maksymov and Andriy Pototsky, for determining, experimentally, what happens to the shape of a living earthworm when one vibrates the earthworm at high frequency.

> REFERENCE: [“Excitation of Faraday-like body waves in vibrated living earthworms,”](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-65295-4) Ivan S. Maksymov and Andriy Pototsky, bioRxiv 10.1101/868521, December 8, 2019.

> WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE CEREMONY: Ivan Maksymov and Andriy Pototsky

https://www.improbable.com/ig-about/winners/#ig2020

More about the research here: https://www.improbable.com/2019/12/18/the-shape-of-a-vibrated-earthworm/

The ceremony is here: https://youtube.com/watch?v=Amkyp-dhYX0 skip to [26:00 for the physics prize](https://youtube.com/watch?v=Amkyp-dhYX0&t=26m). [I think the paper on penguin's rectal pressure and excrement trajectory should've won that award](https://old.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/hklylw/projectile_trajectory_of_penguins_faeces_and/). They won a Nobel prize for ^wiggling ^a ^worm

This’ll be easier than I thought.... ITT: people who can't see the letters "IG". > Particle physics  
  
Alright then. Is he showing off a katana in the left-most photo?. I guess this is marginally better than levitating a dead frog. Early footage from his childhood : https://youtu.be/GVzIqfKXFs0. David Hu must be mad jealous. I've done this. I just didn't study the earthworm.. Lmao worm go brrrr. Is there a list somewhere of IgNobel prize projects that went on to have scientific or engineering (etc.) success? I feel I've seen a few.. ITT: people who don't know what the IgNobel prize is vs. the Nobel prize.. [deleted]. For a second I thought this was the onion sub.. This gives me some ideas for a computational earthworm dynamics project.. I’m more excited for the project that looks at whether ants can be trained to sort tiny screws in zero gravity. I legit thought I was reading r/memes for a good 15 seconds. I read that as Nobel and was extremely confused by the end.. Ok, I get it. I should read the paper. But did they take a video?. If you walk without rhythm, you might vibrate the worm.. This feels like a meme template.. He is Kwisatz Haderach. Best giggle I've had all night!. That thing is just massive vibrator no?. this sounds like a shitpost. There needs to be a reddit dedicated to vibrating things at high frequency just to see what happens.. You think you're Dr. Niko Tatopoulos or something?. No *living* Earthworms were harmed in this experiment.. Do I need to be recognised scientist to get ig Nobel prize? I just need to finds something hilarious and prove that it's worth something?. Next, [LIZARDS!](https://www.facebook.com/groups/491045857750805/permalink/1369306089924773/). What?  Has the entire world of scientific come to a halt?  Surely there must be some more rigorous research which would deserve this, the most prestigious possible award in the field.

I mean, how can you possibly claim that vibrating a worm comes to nearly the same standard of significance as levitating a frog, or flirting with ostriches?  Frankly, I'm outraged.. Damn they really running out of experiment ideas, huh. I need this to be a meme. Apart from the frequency vibration part what does this even have to do with physics. 
Literally the rest has to do with biology as it has to do with the earthworm's body composition, and all that stuff. 
Btw I can't imagine a person receiving a Nobel prize for this, in all due respect.. Just a picture? That doesn't prove anything, a magician could pull it off on video. The Nobel committee is really out of ideas.. You know, maybe I could get a research project funded someday.. My turn. And how will it benifit the society...?. Where is PETA when they're needed?. Ground breaking.... [deleted]. What really? Has physics taken a year off?. My expectations were low for you 2020, but damn.. [removed]. Holy moly I thought this was an April fools joke or something. Well what separates a scientists from an idiot poking a bear with a stick is that the scientist records the results.. Absolutely, just imagine if brain surgery could be possible without having to make a big hole in the skull.. It varies. There is that one homeopathy guy who won the Ig for chemistry twice. Once for "showing" that water molecules had a memory of chemicals they interacted with and the second for his research of water sendung that information through a wire to other water.

So sometimes the just give it to baloney that's exceptionally bold.. This one is fine science, but I think Ig fails there pretty often. Like, is "does frozen poop work as a knife" really interesting materials science research? Is it really? I don't have a qualm with the researchers doing it because they're anthropologists (iirc), but is that REALLY an interesting materials science question?. ultrasound go bzzz. Please correct me if I'm mistaken (and please don't chastise me too much for bringing in comic stuff into physics) isn't this the same theory used with Netflix "the flash" tv show vibrating hand of death thing they do all too often?  Vibrating to make a non intrusive incision on a thing to do something to the inside of said thing?. Huh, so they’re telling me I might be able to shake somebody hard enough to fix them.  Brb. Ty. r/angryupvote. This is all I can find on it. From what I can tell, they v I b r a t e


https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/868521v1?rss=1. The worm gets annoyed at you.. They report you to HR.. Apparently they just put some worms on a speaker. The amazing thing is that it can actually have some applications:

> "They believe it could be useful as a non-invasive method of studying brain impulses, and beyond neuroscience they believe it can be used in robotics to simulate a worm’s movements." 
 [Source](https://www.google.com/amp/s/amp.theguardian.com/science/2020/sep/18/melbourne-academics-win-ig-nobel-prize-for-research-showing-worms-vibrate-like-water). Also. What am I seeing in the lower left?. Very few things managed to lift me up in a very difficult time in just minutes other than this list.

Edit:

I mean, seriously?

"OBSTETRICS PRIZE — [SPAIN] — Marisa López-Teijón, Álex García-Faura, Alberto Prats-Galino, and Luis Pallarés Aniorte, for showing that a developing human fetus responds more strongly to music that is played electromechanically inside the mother’s vagina than to music that is played electromechanically on the mother’s belly.". [From that post, it was awarded in 2005](https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn8108-penguins-pooping-power-scoops-ig-nobel-prize/). these are all bruh moments. They won the Ig Nobel prize. It’s usually given to strange or funny research.. The ig Nobel awards are entirely unrelated to the Nobel prize, it’s given to bizarre research. IG Nobel Prize, slightly better. Also recently awarded for this breakthrough work on the rheology of cats: [https://www.drgoulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/Rheology-of-cats.pdf](https://www.drgoulu.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/Rheology-of-cats.pdf). A decade back some scientists got the award for playing with tape and graphite. Wobbly Sausage. them reddit reading and comprehension skills at work. What letters?. Worms are made of particles, I suppose.. They are exploring the wave-worm duality. I read the abstract and they're just studying how waves propagate through different types of living tissue, worms just being an interesting type of tissue. That's my user flair. The post flair is "Image".. It was a live frog (that was not harmed) and I think that is much more interesting because it was the experimental testing of a theoretical prediction, so a truly scientific project.. W I G G L E  W O R M. DUNE. Determine the effects of vibrations or waves on living tissue.. There was a very brief clip (using a gummy worm) as part of the acceptance speech: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Amkyp-dhYX0&t=1650. The real shitpost is the materials science prize ["for showing that knives manufactured from frozen human feces do not work well."](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jasrep.2019.102002)

https://www.improbable.com/ig-about/winners/#ig2020. Ig Nobel prizes in physics are frequently awarded for biophysics or at least something involving animals (e.g. levitating frogs with magnets). Don't ask me why, I don't choose the winners.. I don't understand your comment, sorry. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ig_Nobel_Prize. From the [abstract](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-020-65295-4):

>The ability to excite nonlinear subharmonic body waves in a living organism could be used to probe, and potentially to control, important biophysical processes such as the propagation of nerve impulses, thereby opening up avenues for addressing biological questions of fundamental impact.. Ig Nobel*, not the other Nobel. I expect that you cannot torture something that cannot experience torture.. At least there was a physics prize at all this year, unlike 2018, 1994 and 1991.

https://www.improbable.com/ig-about/winners/. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ig_Nobel_Prize. A more interesting discovery getting what award? You realize the IG Nobel is different from the overly famous Novel Prize, right? This prize is specifically given to seemingly whacky yet overall useful research, like testing the effects of wave propagation on living tissue. Saying "vibrated some worms" sounds much better for a clickbait title though.. And they also poke statistically significant numbers of bears a significant number of times.. Well said.. To quote Adam Savage:"The only difference between screwing around and science is writing it down". > could be used to probe, and potentially to control, important biophysical processes such as the propagation of nerve impulses

Or treatment of mental illnesses?. Yeah, there's things like this year's peace and epidemiology prizes too. I'm just saying you can't judge ignobels by how dumb they sound.. Well that is pretty cool if he actually proved it. The "categories" of the prizes are almost always jokes. They choose "materials science" because it's a funnier label than "anthropology". The ceremony is a farce, it's just the science itself that's good-actually.. Never seen it, but it sounds similar. The problem with ultrasound surgery is that it's really difficult to make a tight focus with sound. It seems like this idea was more about macroscopic probing using resonances in tissue.. Idk why but this comment sent me to the floor. The idea of someone researching a ton about what happens to warms when vibrated, just to say "they vibrate" and getting a nobel prize is hysterical to me.. One of the laureates holding a toy worm. That's really fucking weird.. thanks for sharing, I suppose the "revisited" version is from 2020 but the original is 2005. I misread this the first time too. Always thought Ig Nobel was one word.. They are related by the punny similarity of names. 

There. Maybe I now qualify for an Ig Nobel in Literature for saying that.. My favourite is Dr Karl who won for discovering why belly button fluff is blue

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Kruszelnicki. Andre Geim won an Ig Nobel prize in 2000 for levitating a frog using magnets. Ten years later he won a Nobel prize for his work on graphene, which did indeed involve scotch tape and graphite. He is the only person so far to receive both prizes.. That was the nobel prize though. They discovered graphene. Which is far more useful then useless data about vibrating worms.. Do you have a citation for that claim. I think you mean Stringy Worm Theory. Shh let me keep the visual of Biophysics PhDs sitting in a lab shaking worms for science. Oh, that makes a lot more sense.. *"Theoretically, if we attach the live subject to this Black Cat bottle rocket, we can achieve full levitation in the subject for a full 8-12 seconds before catastrophic failure resulting in bodily dismemberment. This demonstrates the profound effect that bottle rockets have on my dopamine receptors."*. If you walk with very very fast rhythm, you can reshape the worm.. wait how is that even real?. Earthworms dont grow to that size with high frequency vibration. Thats not even an earth worm it has yellow rings. Thanks!. [removed]. Very true.

For poking bears I think the significant number would be... 1. One bear.

But I'm not a bear expert.. And get paid doing it. While keeping the dimensions of the stick the same (within some narrow range of precision).. They would also record the spot they were poking at or only poke at specified location to make it comparable later on.. In a significant number of places lol. [deleted]. That would make sense, if you get something (specifically metal for surgery) any high vibration rate would destroy the metallic due to metal fatigue.. Ignobel prize. 😅. The award goes to research that First makes you laugh, then makes you think.. Just want to point out that the *Ig* Nobel prize is much, much, muuuuuuch different than the Nobel prize.. Ignoble is. Ig Nobel is not.. That's actually really interesting. I gotta look into the Ig Nobel stuff.. Graphene is pretty awesome. I wish we could mass produce it. I saw where able to make it kinda like paper different chemicals obviously. Just havnt scaled it yet.  It's so light it probably hard to machine make. Or it'd be a very intracrite machine.. Lol. Didn't realize this was a satire version.. Do you have a citation for that citation?. Next you'll be telling me that geologists don't just stare at cool looking rocks all day lmao.. It's not the shape of the worm, it's how it wiggles that counts. I honestly learned it from the commenter's above lol so no worries. TIL. Those are rookie numbers, gotta pump them up.

No but seriously that's probably why we aren't experts. One has to wonder why there are no bear poking experts ?. When performing bear-poking research, I’m pretty sure the significant number that really matters is one scientist. Because he’ll probably only get to do it once.. Not always. Some people pay for grad school.. Yes, possibly, after some preliminary bear poking and grant proposals.. If im correct most of those neurotransmitters are released by nerve impulses. Funny enough the effect of vibration “therapy” for humans is quite amazing. I took part in sitting in a class room with a woman who had instructed us to “ohm” while she played a custom made instrument with vibrating strings and I left that room feeling physically and mentally* elated and I have fibromyalgia so the difference was remarkable.. Damn im an idiot. didnt know this was a thing but now I'm going to spend a considerable amount of time looking at these. Thanks for clarifying!. This makes more sense. I thought physics research had just been going slow this year.. Ah okay I wasnt aware of this. Was sorta confused. Thanks for clarifying!. [deleted]. [deleted]. They'd be like, "Out of 99 experiments we recorded 95 consistent values" and then record some deeply technical, unnecessary analysis.. That’s very unusual here in the US. All PhD programs I’ve seen give a stipend

Edit: autocorrect lag -> give. [deleted]. Oh. Google says it's satire but google is also stupid.. My wife had questions for you: how long is the stick, are you up a tree, and is there someone slower then you when you do this?. Unnecessary for a layperson perhaps, but for other scientists it's almost the most important.. if a school doesn't pay you for a PhD program, they don't really want you there. at least in physics, you don't pay for PhD, only masters if you go that route. This is like saying the reason a computer crashed is because the transistors didn’t have the right amount of electricity. It’s meaningless without asking which transistors, and the answer isn’t generally a power shortage but an issue with the control structures that *connect between* transistors. 

Dopamine does not make you feel reward. The neural ensembles and regions which are responsible for reward-recognition use dopamine as a signaling molecule.. [deleted]. A big old doggie made the job for me.... bears can climb trees. [deleted]. <ba-dum-tss.wav>. Somewhere in the middle: neurotransmitters shouldn’t be described as having functions that are more accurately the function of the *connected neurons that signal to each other using a given neurotransmitter*.. [deleted]. Thank you! I appreciate the enthusiasm. Neurotransmitters have become an element of popular-belief that is oversimplified to the detriment of our appreciation of the brain The 2020 Nobel prize in physics goes to Roger Penrose, Reinhard Genzel and Andrea Ghez. nan. One half to Roger Penrose "for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity", and the other half split between Reinhard Genzel and Andrea Ghez "for the discovery of a supermassive compact object at the centre of our galaxy".

EDIT: The livestream can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5JFKNDVmx6k&t=1590. I'm so surprised but so happy that Penrose finally got it, after all the amazing theoretical work he did.. Well deserved for Roger Penrose!. If Penrose has finally got it – congratulations, Sir Roger! – I have to wonder if this would have also been Hawking's year, had he still been with us.. Oh Goodness, so fucking happy that Roger penrose got it. Believe me I'm having terrible a day but this made me so happy.. Holy shit Roger Penrose is still alive?!. Andrea Ghez is the fourth woman getting a physics Nobel Prize:

Marie Curie 1903, Maria Goeppert-Mayer 1963, Donna Strickland 2018. The last three years doubled the number.

----

Looking around I found [this TED talk](https://www.ted.com/talks/marcus_du_sautoy_symmetry_reality_s_riddle#t-1028810) from 2009: The speaker decided to name a mathematical group after the person who got closest to the number of symmetries a Rubics cube has. Ghez (in the audience) won.

Speaker at ~16:45: "So Ghez, there we go. That's your new symmetrical object, you are now immortal.". Anyone got some papers that were the most relevant on this topic by the three awardees?. Oh penrose. Well done. The book "the road to reality" is an amazing read. That's the physics I understand.. Astronomer here! For those who have never seen it, check out [this video](https://youtu.be/TF8THY5spmo) that is the magnum opus of Genzel and Ghez’s work, where you can *literally see* the stars orbiting the black hole at the center of the Milky Way! It astounded me ever since I first saw it in college and still does. 

Also, it should be noted that these two astronomers actually run rival groups (one in Germany, one in the USA) that both study the black hole at the center of the Milky Way. I think it’s fantastic that both got the Nobel Prize because it’d be so impossible to choose just one as being the seminal group on this research.. Happy for Penrose. Such an amazing mind. Good news feels good man.. I'm very happy that Penrose got it. I hope they award more Nobel Prizes for solid theoretical work in the future as well.. About time Penrose got one. As much as I dislike his later ideas, there is no denying that he is one of the greatest in physics.. Lets go Professor Ghez!!!. This is the first time I have noticed a single prize being awarded for multiple *different* achievements.

Is this a common thing?. Holy crap! I've had dinner with Dr. Ghez! She's amazingly kind to students for being such a phenom. Well deserved 👏 🙌.. Once again, my work in Dr. Havens high school physics class in 1990 goes unrewarded.

I’m beginning to think I won’t get the Nobel. Sad, really.. Penrose gave a talk at my university two years ago and I was pleased to get his signature. He is such an esteemed figure with so much work attributed to him, and it baffled me at the time how he hadn't received a Nobel prize yet, for any of his work, being in his late 80s. I am very glad for him, congratulations sir, and to Genzel and Ghez ofcourse.. Roger Penrose my man. Congratulations sir. 

This is one nomination that no one will question. You deserve it. Everyone know you deserve it. What a year!!!. About time Penrose get's his.. Penrose you are the man !. Too bad Stephen Hawking passed away. He almost certainly would have been awarded something too. At [13:33 in the video, an animation is shown](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5JFKNDVmx6k&t=13m33s) of the stars orbiting Sagittarius A*. I remember that it was probably about 2005 when I first saw a version of that animation (along with the orbit plot shown immediately afterwards). It amazed me that we had the technology to see through all the opaqueness of the galactic plane, and observe stars orbiting so closely to a central mass that it took only a few years for them to complete a significant portion of their orbits. And it amazes me even more now that at least one of those stars has completed a full orbit!. Salute to a legend. Yay Penrose!. Can anyone give a summary of these findings that is better than these news outlets trying to dumb it down? Feel free to assume we know some GR.. If Hawking were alive would he have won as well?. Isn't he one of the Toaster Theorists?. It's about time that Penrose gets his day in the Nobel sun!

Happy for him and for all of us too. Roger's contributions are quite numerous.. Forgive my ignorance but, has it genuinely taken this long to determine there is a supermassive object in the centre of the Milky Way? Has it just been the most likely theory up until this point? Had you asked me even an hour ago I would’ve said so with certainty.. can someone ELI5 pls?. Yesssss!!!! Penrose is the man!!!!. Funnily enough I rmbed this subreddit hating penrose.... Can somone explain to me why the discovery of a supermasive object in the middle of our galaxy is so important. I thought it was something that we already knew because of how our galaxy looks.. Well deserved!. Gratz♾!!. Literally listening to a podcast with roger penrose right now what a coincidence. I think hawking would have been attached to this prize too for collaboration with penrose if he was alive. When I saw this headline, my first thought was "How many has Penrose won now?"

I was shocked to discover that this is his first! How does that happen?. Whoa! Andrea Ghez is the fourth woman in the history of the Nobel Prize to win the Nobel Prize in Physics.. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYQIO51gMM8fLS7rjs97xAQ. It's about time Penrose gets it.. Yay! I had Ghez for a GE class at UCLA. She is an awesome professor too. I only was able to get in with priority enrollment. Excellent excellent choices on both accounts. Congratulations to these spectacular and well deserving physicists!!. Well deserved!. All 3 well deserved. Congrats.. I’ve had Professor Ghez for my undergrad UCLA Astro class for Astrophysics majors. I also saw her few years ago on campus. She is a really smart researcher who has done an amazing team. Her UCLA Galactic team discovered the black hole in the middle of Milky Way and is still tracking the stars around it. So proud to be one of her students and an amazing feeling knowing I spoke to and saw a Nobel Prize winner. Way to go Professor Ghez!! UCLA BRUINS!. Penroooooose. Penrose has deserved it for a while now 
I was just waiting for Ghez to get it lol 
Took em’ long enough !. [deleted]. I am happy that Ghez got it but also a bit sad that SHE got it.. I was hoping that my daughter (currently aged 1) would be the 4th woman to get the prize in physics.. you see, apparently, they pick a woman every 60 years.. the last one was in 2018... so I thought my daughter had her chances... unless it was a fluke and no other woman does anything interesting anymore.. I think 4 women in  120 years is a good representation nowdays!!. Uh, I was under the impression that this was already won by Sheldon Cooper and Amy Farrah Fowler for their work in super asymmetry.. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. I'm tired of praising old white men. All of my props go to Andrea Ghez, truly an accomplishment!. [removed]. [deleted]. He's really one the giants out there today. Surprised he didn't get it sooner tbh.. Stephen is smiling down from the heavens. Nobody deserves it more than Roger Penrose. He's such a great personality! His [podcast episode with Numberphille](https://www.numberphile.com/podcast/roger-penrose) is fantastic.. Same! Took long enough, super happy for him.. I think the justification the representative from the committee gave was really clear as well as being a clear explanation of what a black hole is. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4m380V-ulA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U4m380V-ulA). Agreed!. woulda been tragic if corona got to him before Nobel. This was after decades being told that it won't happen for him too. 

He has battled with cancer, went through a loss of a dear loved one. Almost lost an arm, but still managed to push humanity forward.. That's Sir to you :P. Some of his works on BHs have been in collaboration with Stephen Hawking.. This definitely smells like a paradigm shift inside the nobel committee. Maybe they finally realized that giving prizes to individuals in a time where most progress is made by bigger and bigger collaborations is not going to get easier. With this argumentation, you can always include one theorist from the past century who worked alone on his theories as long as his work is related to a big experimental achievement. Thorne was already somewhat of an indicator in 2017, but with Penrose this now seems to have become definite.. He deserves another one for Twister Theory. My guess is no, but only because of the limitation that only three people can share a year's prize. In fact I think it's likely that if Hawking were still alive this prize might not have even been awarded this year, and the committee would have sat on it until the choice of which three would get it would be made for them to avoid the controversy.. > I have to wonder if this would have also been Hawking's year, had he still been with us.

I am just a lay reader of this sort of stuff but I did, considering the topic, wonder that myself, it does seem like there would have been enough crossover between their shared work, his own contribution and what Penrose appears to have been honoured for, or am I reading it wrong?. I’ll only start my physics degree in two weeks, can you (roughly) outline to me what he did and why it’s apparently a big deal to the community or point me to some sources?. Sorry you’re having a tough one, hopefully this news and a virtual high five helps you feel a bit better!. > Believe me I'm having terrible a day

Off topic and you might not care, but I read you and I hope that whatever trouble you're having solves itself pretty soon :). Hope your day starts looking up soon :). >Believe me I'm having terrible a day but this made me so happy.

I'm in the same boat, had some very bad couple of days, but this news made me genuinely happy for the first time in a while. Stay strong!. Cheer up homie. We got you.. I recently spent two hours interviewing him. I didn't detect any senility at all. He is old of course, and not at as quick witted perhaps. But there was nothing to suggest senility. His ideas about consciousness really are quite interesting and quite original for a guy his age.. Yes! He's slightly senile these days though and spends a bit of time talking about quantum mechanical origins of consciousness etc. Still a great character of course.. >Marie Curie 1903, Maria Goeppert-Mayer 1963, Donna Strickland 2018. The last three years doubled the number.

Unfortunate that Emmy Noether and Chien-Shiung Wu never got one. The former you could argue was a mathematician, but the latter definitely deserved one.. Had Debbie Jin not passed away so young, she would almost definitely recieve the Nobel Prize. She was the true pioneer of degenerate Fermi gas, a major field of research in AMO physics today.. I'm so glad her work on Sag A*, along with Genzel is being recognized. Truly an amazing piece of detective work, and long term dedication.. She's also incredibly sweet, I had the fortune of having her as a professor.. That's an impostor. I think it was just about the discoveries they made. We shouldn't care what their bodies look like.. [Check ](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2020/press-release/) the scientific background under the section "Read more about this year’s prize" They put a lot of papers in the references.. I'm going through it now. Kind of stuck on Riemann surfaces though.. That is an astounding video! I love how you can see the improvement in imaging technology half way through. I assume the fastest orbiting one is the one with a 16 year orbital period?. so many interesting things in one video! thanks for this.. Cool video. Thanks for sharing.. That's my feeling, too. I feel that some of his ideas are a bit on the bent side, but he's always been a great thinker. Even when he has wrong (IMO) ideas, they're wrong in an interesting way. 

A good example is Cyclic Conformal Cosmology.  Do I think that there's much of a chance of it being right? No way. Do I think that it's a brilliantly creative cosmological model? One hundred percent yes.. Yep, pretty common especially if they are different discoveries that share a theme. Just browse the list of prizes.. Happened last year in physics as well. True. 89. Fuck.. Yeah, the Nobel committee always gives a press release aimed at those with a scientific background: https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2020/10/advanced-physicsprize2020.pdf. Maybe but I don't think so. He contributed a lot to this field (the work Penrose is being honored for is even called the "Penrose-Hawking singularity theorems"), but the Nobel prize can only be awarded to three people and there's no separating Ghez and Genzel, and (IMO) Penrose is more deserving for this specific award. But no matter which three of those four got it, it would have been a very controversial decision. Had Hawking still been alive it's possible the awarding committee might have even sat on this one for a few years until the choice was made for them. This prize is being awarded for work done in 2002. It was the first concrete evidence of a black hole at the center of the galaxy. There was some, but not definitive, evidence starting back in the '70s.. me too. (remembering, not hating myself). Penrose's work on general relativity is almost universally revered. He is well acknowledged as one of the world's absolute leading experts on the mathematics of GR, and his work was crucial to making the idea of black holes sensible theoretically. No physicist doubts that.

But his more recent stuff, especially his work relating to consciousness... yes, that's widely regarded as loopy as shit. Winning a Nobel doesn't change that. The fact that he seems to have gone off his rocker later in life doesn't invalidate his earlier work. At the same time, his mathematical brilliance doesn't mean we shouldn't regard his later work with extreme skepticism.

Actually, Penrose may just be the best current example of [this comic.](https://www.smbc-comics.com/?id=2556). Well yeah, we guessed that it was there, but we hadn’t made a direct observation until whenever their work was done. Why does it matter that it is mentioned that she is a woman?

I guess mkre collaborations do get it if their results were independent and both used for experimental proof. I think something similar has happened with neutrino oscillations.. It’s not new that prize winners in the same year worked on different projects, it’s happened the last few years. Usually they’re in the same ballpark though.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Nobel prizes, especially at that early date, were supposed to be more practical and proven, not for exotic theories. That has obviously changed, as theorists and experiments went more fundamental.. No, general relativity is still very much Einstein's work, if it had to be boiled down to a single person. He never got the Nobel prize for general relativity because the Nobel prize is awarded to seminal work with significant experimental evidence, and it was a long time before the evidence for GR was strong enough. I'm linking to [my comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/j62faq/the_2020_nobel_prize_in_physics_goes_to_roger/g7vwke2) above:

>The reason he was awarded the Nobel for the photoelectric effect rather than relativity is because the Nobel committee consists of past Nobel laureates, and one of the winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature objected to the theory of relativity by saying that time is not a physical quantity, but a metaphysical concept, and one can never prove that time slows down, only that clocks do.. Most of the predictions of GR were confirmed after Einstein's death. Look up the "Golden Age of General Relativity". A lot of doubts were also casted on Eddington's measurements as well.. The common thing to happen with this highly teorethical kind of research is that the Nobel is awarded after there is solid experimental evidence of what the theory predicts. A similar thing happened with Higgs.. That’s the first physics Nobel price for math theorems.  I’m surprised
he got one at all. That's exactly what I thought. I'm super happy for him but it took them long enough.. Mister.... Americans are excused from honoring knights.. I'm American, I couldn't care less about your monarchy titles.. I think Jim Peebles is a better example. Thorne is a theorist but he was also one of the 3 founders of LIGO.. In my opinion they must have a separate honoring prize (That accompany the regular Nobel Prize).

Why? Because, well, it is hard to grant a substantial amount of money to a team!! The Nobel prize "money" is already split between at most 3. A fraction of the 1M is a substantial sum for an individual, but it is not really much of a thing for say 13k people at CERN or FermiLab...

They just need an accompanied "Honoring" Nobel prize for organizations... They don't need to give them money, just a medal and some recognition.. It’s hard to give a Nobel to a prediction that we can’t measure. Hawking radiation is quite improbable to be measured any time soon. Lots of crossover. The main work in question bears both their names. [The Nobel Prize website](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2020/summary/) gives a brief summary of what Penrose, Genzel, and Ghez did.. Where can we find the interviews? (If it's intented to be made available to the public). He's been talking about that for a long time, and I feel it's unfair to mean he's "slightly senile".

Penrose is one of those people that has hundreds of original, sometimes outlandish ideas. Like the cyclical universe, and wavefunction collapse due to gravity. Most will turn out wrong, but many will at least have sparked inspiration for many scientists.. Senile!? In his podcast appearance on *Mindscape* and JRE, he still sounded sharp as tack.

God knows how fearsome was his intellect in his prime.. If you would listen to him in a podcast talking about other stuff, you would see that he’s sharp as can be. It's not senility, he's been talking about these things since the late 80s.. I am not a physicist, but other deserving names include Vera Rubin, Lise Meitner, and Jocelyn Bell-Burnell, among others.. Damn noether gave as deep insights in nature as any of the famous physicists.. Noether was definitely a mathematician. She proved afaik one physics-related theorem ever, and basically invented abstract algebra and algebraic topology as we know it today. It’d be cool if she won a Nobel prize but her contribution to math are just as important if not more important than to physics.. The point is, people do care what their bodies look like. These three people were screwed cuz of discrimination;    
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vera_Rubin#Legacy   
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chien-Shiung_Wu#Beta_decay_and_the_conservation_of_parity  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mileva_Mari%C4%87#Debate_over_collaboration_with_Einstein  
 So we should give extra praise to women in this field.. [deleted]. I understand. But sometimes you can jump in a first read. I mean finishing the book is worth it.. Just continue reading, maybe look some of it up in other books or on Wikipedia. Revisit it some time later and see if you understand more of it.. The jump in image quality is actually the switch* between the 3.6 meter NTT telescope and the new 8.2 meter Very Large Telescope. Resolution goes as 1/diameter of the mirror. The correction for the atmosphere also improved along the way. In 8 years time there will be an even bigger jump of a factor of 4-5 in resolution, when the 39 meter Extremely Large Telescope becomes active.. Yes you can see more detailed videos [here. ](http://astro.ucla.edu/~ghezgroup/gc/animations.html). Also the year before. I would say that those subjects (laser tweezers and CPA) were only tangentially related. Yeah I forgot it was limited to three people so the committee got lucky here not having to separate Hawking and Penrose. I would agree this probably is more Penrose than Hawking, as Hawking probably would have won for something that involved the event horizon and Hawking radiation.. it doesn't. What does is that she was treated differently in the article.  Sorry, but this sort of thing happens a lot in science. It is not direct or overt.   The article has since been corrected btw to at least be consistent in their naming nomenclature. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. I'll just link to [my comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/j62faq/the_2020_nobel_prize_in_physics_goes_to_roger/g7vwke2) above:

>The reason he was awarded the Nobel for the photoelectric effect rather than relativity is because the Nobel committee consists of past Nobel laureates, and one of the winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature objected to the theory of relativity by saying that time is not a physical quantity, but a metaphysical concept, and one can never prove that time slows down, only that clocks do.. And also kind of with Einstein, he never won one for special or general relativity. He should have won it in 1919 when Eddington made the eclipse observations, but apparently he never got it for relativity because he alienated himself from the physics community for being very skeptical about quantum theory. In my opinion that shouldn’t have disqualified him from winning it.. In case of Penrose we've been quite sure of the existence of Black Holes for a number of decades, and looking at the winners during those years I feel it's a travesty that he didn't win it sooner.. That's how it should be, in my opinion.  Speaking as a theorist, theory is only good for understanding the physical world, which requires some validation from experiments.  Models help to interpret data and understand nature, but all models are only some approximation of how things really work.. People hate the show but The Big Bang Theory gets some stuff like this kinda right. Sheldon made a theoretical discovery/prediction and his Nobel (sigh yes) was in danger of being “stolen” by a couple of experimental physicists who accidentally verified what he had predicted.. What prediction did Penrose make that was later observed?. Yeah it was a bit of a surprise for me too - does Penrose's work *ensure* that black holes exist, or does it just show that they are physically reasonable solutions? Wigner's work was heavily mathematical (and he probably wouldn't have gotten the prize were it not for his celebrated theorems), but Wigner also made some very precise and definite predictions about nuclear physics.. Not really, in my opinion Penrose's work is roughly as theoretical as Higgs was before the Higgs' boson was discovered. Higgs did his work decades before being awarded the nobel but like Penrose only got the award after an experimenter had discovered the thing.. The way I look at it is that these titles are silly and anachronistic and many people get them for donations to their political party but some people are giants and worthy of special status in recognition of their achievements. It is tricky I agree and would guess that Penrose rates his FRS more highly.. Peebles was one of the people who predicted the CMB. IMO that's on par with people like Higgs. He just didn't get credit in the 1978 CMB discovery nobel prize because they already had three experimentalists.. The nobel prize should also inspire others, which is much easier with actual people than with faceless organisations. They also don't really need a seperate prize, they could just start aknowledging organisations as well. So e.g. 2017 would have been LIGO overall and Thorne in particular.. I mean if CMS ever wins I'll gladly take my $333 share lol. For some reason they allow the Peace Prize (arguably the least legitimate Nobel) to groups, but not the academic ones.. Hawking didn't just do Hawking radiation. The very work Penrose is being honored for with this prize is called the "Penrose-Hawking singularity theorems".. It was for the Danish version of the BBC so maybe not that accessible.. Not that interview, but Numberphile had an interview with him a month ago.. I really enjoyed "shadows of the mind" (that follows "the emperor's new mind"), not so much because of his "demonstrations", which, while sensible, still did not convince me, but because of what I'd like to call the pervasive "fruitful doubt" that transpire through his exposition of the mathematical (what is an "unassailable truth"?), physical (the shortcomings of quantum theory interpretations) and biological (what is the physical support of consciousness?) challenges he presents.. Takes it too seriously IMO, it's okay to have "haywire ideas" (like Wheeler's single electron universe) but the way you treat them matters.

However Penrose is definitely in the selected few that have more than earned a "haywire licence". Definitely not in a senile way.. This is a very fair comment and indicative of a great mind. If I ever had an original thought in Physics it would probably be “not even wrong” as they say, but Penrose has been a fountain of interesting conjectures that have pushed the boundaries of our knowledge outwards, even if by disproving him. Much better for science that such conjectures are boldly put forward, rather than timidly kept under a bushel.. >I feel it's unfair to mean he's "slightly senile".

Very senile?

I kid, I kid.. He's 89, almost 90. He WILL be slightly senile. If I live that long I'll be slightly senile too, or worse.

> Penrose is one of those people that has hundreds of original, sometimes outlandish ideas. 

Yes, he's very creative. However the ideas are getting more outlandish and less tied to reality, look at his microtubule stuff for example. It's really far out there, too far out there for me. I think a younger Penrose would have stopped before sailing that far from the shore.. > I feel it's unfair to mean he's "slightly senile".

Trouble is, it'd be even more unfair to assume he's in a healthy state when he proposes nonsense like quantum computation in microtubules providing a nondeterministic ingredient for human brains to defeat Gödel's theorem and solve undecidable problems.. He was insanely sharp in his prime, and he still is. I'm not saying he's not sharp, I should be more specific.

His common sense has slipped slightly. His 'reality filter' that would normally tell him to abandon a particular train of thought isn't quite up to snuff anymore (he's almost 90 remember).

So he's burrowing into... fringe topics with his Nobel prize winning intellect. It's like he's set out to prove that Santa Claus is real and uses his genius brain to make a compelling case for old father christmas. Even if he makes a genius tier case for it, he's still arguing for Santa.. Sharp but lacking some common sense, his 'reality filter' is a little worn out. His mind is like a big cannon but he's having a harder time aiming it.. Emmy Noether is up there with Boltzmann, Maxwell, Bohr and Einstein in my book. Maybe its best to teach them otherwise rather than perpetuating it. Sucks that those people had other people that had messed up morals screw them over. It sucks when people do mean stuff. Glad we can hopefully move forward.. But, people that are interested in science should pursue science. Why should it matter what your body looks like?       Nowhere near equality of the sexes in bricklaying if your goal is equity.. Was the jump in resolution primarily driven by the switch from speckle imaging to adaptive optics, or because of the telescope diameter? It seems odd that they didn't use a 10m class telescope earlier (e.g., Keck I has been around since 1993).. Astronomy going the "bigger is better" way as particle physics does :p

Do we have a fundamental limit to the size of these things ? Like how do you guarantee the mirror shape over such a large area ?  Or is it just money?. So in how many years will we run out of English words to describe just *how large* those telescopes are?. With the trend in smartphones becoming 'do everything' devices, i might have a small telescope in my pocket in the near future.

Kidding aside, I've been following the budget and funding and construction progress for the large telescopes and satellites like James Webb and LISA...very very excited to see where we are with astronomical data by the 2040s. I feel like our understanding is going to be 10,000x better than now.. Those topics are too theoretical for Nobel committee. It's harsh, but probably Hawking could've gotten it if one of the current laureates had passed away instead of him.. Well i dont know how it was written in the article and maybe it really was sexism, but it also could be a genuine oversight. I am not for or against it. I honestly didnt even register she was a woman, i just read their names and was like, ok i dont know them, but i do know Penrose. I just dont like everything that happens to be looked through this kind of a lens. Its getting annoying and against its starting spirit.  But ok, this is not a conversation for this thread.. [removed]. I'm not sure what more I need to say.

First of all, Einstein's 1921 prize covered "his services to Theoretical Physics." Which makes it hard to give him *another* prize for particular theories.

That they stretched to mention the photoelectric effect is because it was the most directly experimental, new, and uncontroversial result they could. Special and General Relativity are not the kind of practical application of physics that Nobel had in mind, in addition to GR being still very new, when the prize was supposed to reflect long-term impact. Look at the prize just before Einstein: 

> Charles Edouard Guillaume “in recognition of the service he has rendered to precision measurements in Physics by his discovery of anomalies in nickel steel alloys”

or 1912

> Nils Gustaf Dalén “for his invention of automatic regulators for use in conjunction with gas accumulators for illuminating lighthouses and buoys”

or 1909

> Guglielmo Marconi and Karl Ferdinand Braun “in recognition of their contributions to the development of wireless telegraphy”

or 1908

> Gabriel Lippmann “for his method of reproducing colours photographically based on the phenomenon of interference”

Most of the rest are clearly experimental results and more general theories about thermal physics. The ones I mentioned it would probably not even be considered physics today.

By the time you start getting really theoretical awards like Pauli or Yukawa or Yang and Lee, its very late to be giving Einstein a second prize for stuff he did 40 years earlier.. That is about when he was not awarded for special relativity in 1921. But, Einstein was alive till 1955 and Bergson's influence over the Nobel committee had by then completely waned. 
 
I also think Einstein and Bergson basically talked past each other in their meeting. 

Your ideas about Bergson's views are completely wrong. Have you ever read one of his books? He was not a sophist and comparing him to William Lane Craig is stupid. There are many people who criticize him in this kind of stupid manner even though all they know of his work are through false and badly written second-hand summaries. Furthermore, *Fashionable Nonsense* was written by two people who had very little idea about many of the authors whom they criticized. Taking random quotes out of context does not demonstrate anything.. lol. Made me curious as to how often people won multiple prizes and whether that was a thing the committee avoided doing, so I looked it up. Only three people have won multiple Nobel prizes with both prizes being for the sciences.

They are Bardeen (Physics '56 and '72), Curie (Physics 1903 and Chemistry 1911) and Sanger (Chemistry '58 and '80). Pauling won one in chemistry in 1954 and then a peace prize, the UNHCR eon two peace prizes and the ICRC won three peace prizes.

So it is very rare to win multiple prizes in the sciences but certainly not out of the question.. This is incorrect. Einstein never alienated himself from the physics community, he was always a very influential and respected figure in physics. And he wasn't skeptical about quantum theory; he is arguably the creator of it, and saw it as his "baby" much more than he ever did relativity. It's true that Einstein was famously unhappy about some of the interpretations of quantum mechanics but he wasn't opposed to the theory in general, and in any case this skepticism started later than 1919.

Einstein never got the prize for his relativity theories because the experimental proof for them was quite weak. Even with Eddington's measurements, general relativity was controversial, and with rising antisemitism in Germany and Europe in general it was enough to deny Einstein the prize for it. He was awarded the Nobel prize for the photoelectric effect (which is what made quantum theory popular in the first place, btw) since the evidence for it was overwhelming, but as the awarding committee put it, 

>the Royal Academy of Sciences has decided to award you last year's Nobel Prize for physics, in consideration of your work in theoretical physics and in particular your discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect, but without taking into account the value which will be accorded your relativity and gravitation theories after these are confirmed in the future

It would be decades until there was much stronger proof of general relativity to the point where these theories could be considered "confirmed". He still won the 1921 prize for physics for his paper on how the photoelectric effect could be explained by discrete quantized packets(we call them photons now) and how the energy of them relates to the wavelength of the light. 


So, still a pretty big deal.. IMO, the thing with Einstein is that the paper that got him the Nobel was way less controversial at the time, and while there was significant evidence supporting his relativity theories a few years later, as you point out, the hype was all with quantum physics by then.. I could be wrong but I don’t think it was because of quantum mechanics at that time. Einstein started to feel that way about quantum physics around/after the 20s when all of the crazy discoveries were made. I heard that the reason he didn’t win the Nobel prize was because of the anti-Semitic Nobel committee at the time.. >but apparently he never got it for relativity because he alienated himself from the physics community for being very skeptical about quantum theory.

This isn't true at all. Einstein was still highly respected, as he won his prize in 1921, much earlier than the Solvay conference that led to the troublesome interpretation that is still taught today.

The reason he was awarded the Nobel for the photoelectric effect rather than relativity is because the Nobel committee consists of past Nobel laureates, and one of the winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature objected to the theory of relativity by saying that time is not a physical quantity, but a metaphysical concept, and one can never prove that time slows down, only that clocks do. His name was Henri Bergson, and he actually was influential enough to get a mention in the original French edition of *Fashionable Nonsense*. Incidentally, this is exactly the type of sophistry that leading Christian apologist William Lane Craig is spouting.

Oh, and bonus points to anyone who can point out why Bergson's argument is fully general and can be levelled at any scientific discovery, thereby proving that none of the science Nobel winners actually deserve their Nobel Prize.

Source for the main claim: [This Philosopher Helped Ensure There Was No Nobel for Relativity](http://nautil.us/issue/35/boundaries/this-philosopher-helped-ensure-there-was-no-nobel-for-relativity). No. It was because he was a Jew. I realize this might be a touchy subject but look into it before making a rash judgement on this comment.. Einstein asked astronomers to look for star deflection back in 1907, it is a direct consequence of Equivalence Principle.. Also he was Jewish.. I’m curious why skepticism is so rudely decried in science. Skepticism is a major part of science. In fact m, I would argue science is not science without it. But if, for example, I am skeptical that UV radiation is the only way the sun heats the earth, I receive such backlash, name calling, etc. I’m told to agree or they won’t continue to talk to me. If I am skeptical that dark matter is real, and that perhaps there’s another explanation, I’m equally received with such anger. Why is skepticism treated like heresy?

Since when did science become a religion??. Honestly should have won it for Brownian Motion too. 

Awards are political affairs, and Einstein didn’t bother himself with something as banal as politics. Makes me love the dude even more.. The way I understand it he alienated himself in general and tended to work alone or cut ties with collaborators over issues that ensued during. I think with quantum theory it was more about the fact that he didn't like that the underlying reason it worked was and is still unknown. After all he did contribute heavily to quantum theory.. > does Penrose's work ensure that black holes exist

It actually only ensures that singularities[†] will form once there is an
event horizon.

[†] with a very broad definition of the term *singularity*, e.g. the
Cauchy horizon of the Kerr solution is a singularity in this sense. No, not at all. Penrose's work is mathematically rigorous. There is no mathematically rigorous definition of a quantum field, so Higgs's work cannot possibly be at the same level of mathematical rigor as Penrose's.. Higgs (and that French guy) made a prediction that was borne out in experiment, hence the prize. But Penrose was awarded for purely theoretical work.. Unless you are British, why would you care what titles the British government gives them?  Half the world has worked hard to get away from the grasp of the British empire, I'm not about to acknowledge titles just because they tell me to.. Peebles did a lot more than just the CMB though, he literally wrote the book on structure formation. He could have been awarded it with Mather and Smoot in 2006, the second CMB award. I don't think he would have received the prize if his work had ended with predicting the CMB.. For all of its faults, the Peace Prize does this and I think it's quite effective (at least when a single named organization is key, many collaborations aren't as formal and independent as LIGO). Yea that is my point with the "honouring prize"... Its not a prize, its just an honouring recognition and some publicity to the institution, which they in fact deserve.
I called it a prize because it matches with the current Nobel Prize. But it is not really a prize, not necessarily a material one.. XD, but you guys won't have it all. If the Higgs-Englert-Brout prize was to be awarded to you, you will share it in half with ATLAS.
This means 500k, assuming all the "current" people working at CMS get a share of the prize (approx. 4100) this would mean each will get around 121 USD.

On a more serious note, I said "honouring prize" because the Nobel Prize organization does not have more money to give... They cannot afford doubling the prize money to include organizations, and it is nonetheless pointless as I was arguing in the first comment.

Anyway, thanks for making me laugh XD. XD, yea. Two words I have for this, politics and publicity.
The Nobel Prize is not measure of the amount of good works you put to be honest. Many physicists who deserve it did not get it like Prof. Wu for example.. Cognitive degeneration gets more common with old age, but that doesn't mean that every single person over a certain age is necessarily senile. I personally know a centennial who's completely lucid / with it.. Senility at those ages has a very specific meaning. Proposing controversial but thoroughly researched conjectures like OOR does not make you senile.. He's been making that argument for a very long time, now. It's okay to think that the argument is crazy, but it's not an indicator of senility!. If the 'fringe topic' is consciousness, he has been toying with his idea since 1989(?).. Id say more so. The extension of noethers theorem to gauge theory is the most fundamental motivation for why everything exists as it is. I suppose she didnt figure out that application herself but still its about the most important theoretical development in all of physics.. Can you really not imagine looking at a field and seeing none of its heroes and public figures look like you, and how that might be intimidating and exclusionary? 

By demanding immediately a 'gender-blind' approach, you're implicitly propping up the status quo which is definitively not gender  blind.. [deleted]. Not entirely sure, in the old papers using the NTT and speckle imaging they did claim to reach the diffraction limit. If true the jump is mostly due to diameter, but on the other hand the precision of the measurements jumped by a factor of 8 which can't be all due to diameter. The video is from the European team so it doesn't use any Keck data. Keck is privately owned.. [The trend has been going for 400 years now](https://faculty.virginia.edu/ASTR5110/lectures/optics3/bely-1.jpg), since the invention of the telescope. 

While there are no fundamental limits for telescope size we will probably reach practical limits on the ground. A study showed that a 100 meter telescope should be possible, but risk and money ultimately killed that project for now. Even current telescopes like the VLT and Keck require precise actuators to hold their mirrors in shape against sagging under gravity and other aberrations. This will be even more critical for larger telescopes like the ELT. 

While monolithic telescopes will probably reach an end, resolution will continue to increase further by interferometry. The VLT is not just 4 large separate telescopes, it can also combine its telescopes to create a synthetic aperture which can be over 100 meters in diameter. This means the VLTI can reach the resolution of a 100 meter telescope, although there are many other downsides. Genzel actually lead the development of a new instrument (GRAVITY) which is the first instrument sensitive enough to measure the stars around the Milky Way's black hole with intereferometery, and they have blown away the competition with unrivaled precision. Interferometry currently comes with a lot of downsides, it's not going to replace normal telescopes anytime soon, but it does offer a way to continue "bigger is better".. Personally, I think it's a shame that the [Overwhelmingly Large Telescope (OWL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overwhelmingly_Large_Telescope) didn't make it off the ground. The name itself should have guaranteed success.. If the Nobel committee back then made considerations similar to how they do so today, I think it's likely Einstein would have shared Perrin's 1926 prize, which largely involved confirming his theoretical work on Brownian motion. (Perhaps 1/4 Einstein, 1/4 Smoluchowki, 1/2 Perrin.) But they tended to lean towards awarding experimentalists or theorists by themselves back then.. I've been lucky enough to hold the Bardeen prizes. Hearing his son talk about the inspiration Marie was to so many scientists was very cool.. Allvar Gullstrand almost got two in the same year. He received the 1911 Physiology prize, and was recommended by the Physics committee for that prize as well (having also been nominate for 1910 Physics). He declined the Physics prize because *he happened to be on the committee*. 
Also notable, he served on the committee for 18 more years and denied Einstein's nomination almost every single time (particularly against relativity).

[source](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaophthalmology/fullarticle/411928). I think it’s because they only look at the discoveries of that year, and it’s not really common for big names like Einstein and Penrose to publish “big papers” every year. Einstein published SR in 1905 and GR in 1915, so that’s a 10 year gap.. >until there was much stronger proof of general relativity to the point where these theories could be considered "confirmed"

How would observable gravitational lensing not be considered a confirmation of the theory?. That is a severe misreading of Einstein, in my opinion. Einstein wrote probably the first paper that actually pushed the idea that quantum physics was fundamentally non-classical. Planck thought his physics was still continuous, with the fundamental unit of action playing a role. Einstein was also the first to apply quantum mechanics outside black body theory. Where he differered with Bohr is more about the lack of evidence that actual individual behavior of single atoms is being measured in spectra. And, in fact, it wasn't until decades later that atomic physics had gotten to the point where you could measure the behavior of single atoms instead of vapor with huge numbers of atoms.

Nobel prizes at that early date were supposed to be about practical discoveries.. >I heard that the reason he didn’t win the Nobel prize was because of the anti-Semitic Nobel committee at the time.

Not sure if antisemitism played a part in it, but it was because a continental philosopher objected to relativity on the grounds that one can never prove time slows down, just that clocks do. His inane argument was accepted because he was a previous Nobel Literature laureate.. >Oh, and bonus points to anyone who can point out why Bergson's argument is fully general and can be levelled at any scientific discovery, thereby proving that none of the science Nobel winners actually deserve their Nobel Prize.

Ah, the good old "you didn't measure X, you measured a voltage change in your detector" argument. >  one of the winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature objected to the theory of relativity by saying that time is not a physical quantity, but a metaphysical concept

LOL

 "lemme take a quick derivative with respect to this unquantifiable metaphysical concept" - all of classical physics, apparently. Also because of politics, his theory of relativity was in no small part made controversial by anti-semitic German scientists. Iirc the Nobel Commitee kinda looped arround that by giving him the Nobel for his less controversial paper.. Not sure why you're being downvoted. The story is well established:
https://www.theguardian.com/science/across-the-universe/2012/oct/08/einstein-nobel-prize-relativity. [deleted]. >The way I understand it he alienated himself in general and tended to work alone or cut ties with collaborators over issues that ensued during.

That's not true. Einstein collaborated with scientists up until the end of his career. And as far as I know he never cut ties with anyone over petty differences.

> I think with quantum theory it was more about the fact that he didn't like that the underlying reason it worked was and is still unknown

Einstein liked quantum theory. He created it, after all. What he didn't like was the Copenhagen interpretation put forward by Bohr and Heisenberg which led to all sorts of weirdness like entanglement.. [deleted]. There are mathematically rigorous formulations of quantum field theory and at least one of them, (algebraic quantum field theory à la Haag and co.) has the Higgs mechanism (at least according to a paper I just found but don't understand).

Of course this theory doesn't model reality particularly well, but frankly neither does general relativity (one could unfairly argue that GR doesn't help at *all* in predicting the outcomes of CERN experiments).. I think the Nobel committee would disagree with you, although I'm not entirely sure I  do. There is a reason no one (e.g. Hawking) got a Nobel for work on black holes before, and that reason is that the comittee does not award the prize for theory unless it has been born out in experiment.. Have you understood what I wrote? Apparently not.. um cuz the other user just tried forcing us to use those titles lmao. In the same way Thorne did a lot more than just found LIGO. The difference between him and people like Higgs and Pebble is that Thorne didn't happen to predict some magic game changing thing that was later experimentally verified. Neither did Penrose. But their contributions were still worthy of the prize, and it seems that the committe has now changed their mind about how theory prizes need to work. Hawking died in 2018 and Penrose is pushing 90. Had he died as well before getting the prize, it would have been pretty disheartening for great theorists to ever get this ultimate form of recognition.. The Nobel would also go a long way if it were given to research groups in general and their leader in particular. Just to show that modern physics is about people working together, not locking themselves up and thinking really hard about nature.. I think we might be using the word in different ways.

For me it's basically: Is he as sharp and lucid as he was in his prime? No. Therefore he is slightly senile, that doesn't mean he's demented etc.

Maybe I'm using the world wrongly.. > Proposing controversial but thoroughly researched conjectures like OOR 

Also, the notion that Orch-OR is "thoroughly researched" is absurd. It's a crackpot idea analogous to, say, Michael McCulloch's "quantized inertia", except McCulloch is obviously no Penrose. It has no cogent motivation: no reason to expect humans have the power to decide the undecidable, no reason to expect non-probabilistic nondeterministic behavior -- whatever that is -- in quantum mechanics, and no reason to expect such a behavior would result in consciousness if it was there. It's further disconnected from reality since there's zero evidence microtubules play any role in cognition, and zero evidence they could operate as quantum computers even in principle.

If anybody else had come up with it, the idea would've remained in obscurity. Penrose's good name is the only reason anyone is even aware of it. It's not a good reason.. Maybe, but senility is by far the most charitable suggestion for why a verifiable genius would be suggesting utterly crackpot notions such as quantum computation in the brain.. Maybe, maybe not. I'm not a psychiatrist and even if I were I couldn't diagnose him at a distance. All I'm  saying is that it's fairer to the man to assume that's what it is, rather than simply presuming he's afflicted with an appalling lack of judgement when it comes to this subject.. Exclusionary? Maybe if someone keeps telling me it is. 

I'm not demanding anything.. They can't relate unless they have the same genitals? This doesn't make sense. Science is science. You are interested in it genuinely or not.. Are you saying you held one of John Bardeen's medals? And also that the son was speaking of Marie Curie? It's a little confusing the way you've worded it. I thought you meant Bardeen's name was Marie.. Gullstrand denied Einstein for relativity? Does he know there are coordinates named after him for the Schwarzschild metric?. >I think it’s because they only look at the discoveries of that year

That was the case, but it isn't true now. (Nor was it true past the first few years. Einstein's photoelectric effect paper was one of his *annus mirabilis* papers.). Concrete observations of gravitational lensing weren't seen until the 70s. I see.

I could still very well be wrong. But, I think that quantum physics (at that point was somewhat intuitive - compared to after the 20s). As you said, Einstein was writing some of the first papers on quantum physics. And after the 1920s, he was known for quite a bit of his work in the field to try and debunk some of the phenomena with things such as the EPR Paradox and Schrödinger’s cat. 
He actively spoke against the Copenhagen interpretation, which arose from the discoveries during the 20s especially. Einstein claimed it was incomplete. During 1900-1920, there was no reason to think that because there weren’t enough discoveries or bizarre phenomena to speak out against quantum physics. In other words, there were less counterintuitive things to speak out against.. Well, it could have been for many reasons since Einstein could have (and in my opinion should have) won more than two Nobel prizes. And he could have won them over many years since prizes were also being awarded to past discoveries - (even though he was against that).. Which philosopher do you mean?. Let me clarify.

I was referring to two things really. First, it should be 100% ok and welcome for anyone to ask questions or challenge an idea, even to scientists in their own field. They should be able to easily and politely explain why something is believed to be true over something else. Feynman and Sagan were beautiful experts at this. But today it does not seem to be so possible. I think skepticism from everyone and anyone, including scientists, especially scientists, should be the norm in the scientific community. After all, that's why their papers are peer reviewed. And that's why Feynman and Sagan did so many public interviews. Somehow, after they passed, we have lost the ability to do this as a society. No one has been able to take up their mantle. This saddens me greatly.

My second thought was more related to me posting on reddit forums to other non-scientists, or in some other forum. It could be astrophotography or 3D modeling, or physics, whatever. I have a lot of interests, and I read a lot of articles. Some of those articles are nothing but click-bait articles which announce, for example, that physicists have finally proven XYZ exists. There's a difference between something that is currently the most popular theory (or really idea) vs it has been proven to be true.

So anyway, I am surprised that you say I would need to be tame in approaching people in a reddit forum if my questions are different from the norm. That seems ridiculous. Personally, I am asked questions by laymen all the time about my field, and I do not react angrily or lash out at them, no matter how ridiculous their questions are. Nor, am I some fragile engineer that I crumble if they challenge me. I am proven wrong by people everyday. This is normal. Instead, I would argue that it should go something like this:

*Me posting to a reddit forum*: I have been reading about "blah X", and it doesn't make sense to me. Based on some articles, I think "blah blah Y" instead.

*Someone Else responding*: I can understand why you may think that. The reason it is not "blah blah Y" is because of this and that. And that's why the most popular consensus of scientists in this field is "blah X".

Maybe I post a follow up response, and we debate. And maybe we change one of our minds. Or maybe not. But we \*enjoy\* the discussion.

Simple, right?

But that's not usually what happens. IMO, I should not need to be tame to post on a reddit forum or any other kind of forum.. Entanglement isn't part of Copenhagen's weirdness, it is part of quantum mechanic's weirdness. Entanglement is a real thing, measured in real world experiments, and is the basis of more than a few quantum communication/cryptography/computation protocols.. Arguably, Einstein disliked all interpretations which were not local and realistic (where I'm using both words in the sense of the EPR paper).. Yes Einstein collaborated but he didn't--from my point of view--seem to like when people disagreed with him on important issues like interpretations of Quantum Physics.

I'm not sure of his personal feelings towards the physics but yeah quantising light is pretty important to quantum physics, however I think everyone can agree he didn't like the interpretation which was being used largely because the attitude towards the foundations or underlying reasons it worked--which is explained(or not)--by the interpretation which was increasingly used by his colleagues, hence the quite public debate.

 Bohr seems to have been quite charismatic and convincing in promoting his interpretation but it is rather idealistic which was and is a rather extreme view of what reality truly is.

Judging by the increasingly large amount of physicists converting to the many worlds interpretation, when they give it some thought and maybe have the problems highlighted, they tend to convert to many worlds. Maybe it's the relatively new fields of research like quantum gravity which make the physicists inclined to the interpretation or maybe they are just being prompted to think more logically about the implications of their interpretation more often but for whatver reason when polled increasingly more people opt for MW. Also I'm pretty sure entanglement isn't specific to the Copenhagen interpretation. It didnt lead to it, Quantum Physics itself did.. > So Penrose only showed the formation of a coordinate singularity is ensured?

No.  I mean every student who just learned about manifolds can easily
construct arbitrary coordinate singularities…

> Do you know if there are singularity theorems that are only
> concerned with “true” singularities?

The Penrose-Hawking singularity theorems show that the maximal
globally hyperbolic solution is not geodesically complete.  See Bob
Wald’s book for a more detailed discussion.  Classical physics does
break down, just maybe not in the way you expected.. I don't believe that AQFT is a complete program considering that the rigorous mathematical definition of quantum Yang-Mills theory is still an open Millennium Problem. Such a definition would be a prerequisite for any rigorous deduction of the Higgs boson. Presumably if AQFT was complete, this problem would be solved. In any case, Higgs's work was done in the usual physicist's way and not in any mathematical treatment like AQFT so the point that Penrose's work is more mathematically rigorous than Higgs's still stands.

> Of course this theory doesn't model reality particularly well, but frankly neither does general relativity (one could unfairly argue that GR doesn't help at *all* in predicting the outcomes of CERN experiments).

This is nonsense. GR describes virtually all astrophysical observations to an extremely high precision and has proven it's predictive power many times over. Your parenthetical statement has nothing to do with anything.. [deleted]. Thorne may have done a lot of good theory work, but he was given the prize specifically for his role in LIGO. Peebles on the other hand was never directly involved in any significant observational result, although he anticipated both the discovery of the CMB and Lambda. Thorne was awarded the prize for his role in an experiment, Peebles won it for his decades of work in cosmology theory.. You are weirdly aggressive about this. I find it interesting. Physics has had way more outlandish ideas some of which are still in use. The Emperor's New Mind came out back in 1989. He's been pushing the  microtubule idea for at least that long. Again, there's no reason to think that this is the result of senility unless you're trying to claim that he's been senile for over 30 years now, which really doesn't seem plausible. 

Like I said, you don't have to like his ideas, but dismissing them as symptoms of senility is going too far.. I feel like you know exactly what the people talking to you mean but are being deliberately obtuse.. [deleted]. No dude, but they relate better. Don't act like the only factor gender plays in society is what kind of genitals you have. When every physicist who gets publicity is a man (and when some of them are rather nasty sexists) physics winds up looking like a boys' club, and that pushes young women away.. I worked across the hall from one of Bardeen's sons. He brought in both his father's medals around Nobel time each year. He also talked about Marie due to the connection of two people to win the prize twice in science.. I thought  Eddington  observed lensing during a solar eclipse.. Einstein spoke negatively about the Copenhagen interpretation because its bullshit, thats only my opinion but I don't know anyone who works in quantum foundations who really thinks of it as even being an interpretation anymore. Taken literally it isn't even consistent.

Einstein's criticisms were as valid back then as they are now and his attempts to address the foundational problems lead to some pretty serious breakthroughs. 

From what I've heard Bohr and Heisenberg put a lot of pressure trying to stop people working on stuff like EPR, and were so sucessful that it took John Bell coming from a different field several decades later to finally sort out what was going on.. Henri Bergson. Today we know [read: very strongly believe] entanglement's weirdness is a fundamental part of quantum mechanics. At the time, entanglement (or at least the non-locality of it) was a consequence of the Copenhagen interpretation and the reason for Einstein disliking that specific formulation of quantum mechanics. > Yes Einstein collaborated but he didn't--from my point of view--seem to like when people disagreed with him on important issues like interpretations of Quantum Physics.

Einstein never put even close to as much effort into destroying the credibility of people disagreeing with him as Bohr and Heisenberg did, in fact I'm not quite sure what Einstein was supposed to have done that would indicate this strong this dislike. 

>Bohr seems to have been quite charismatic and convincing in promoting his interpretation but it is rather idealistic which was and is a rather extreme view of what reality truly is.

Bohr's strict Copenhagen interpretation is a self-conflicting mess, and generally not taken seriously anymore.. Is it completely correct to say that geodesic incompleteness is equivalent to GR “breaking down”? Isn’t that based on an assumption of how physics (say, the timelike trajectory of a free massive particle) should work? How do we know that such a particle wouldn’t spontaneously annihilate when reaching the center of a BH, for example, the way GR seems to imply?

Just playing devil’s advocate.. Yes, I was arguing with the claim

>There is no mathematically rigorous definition of a quantum field

To omit talking about AQFT in the context of that statement is to be concise to the point of deceptiveness. There is a mathematical definition of a quantum field, one complete enough to be able to talk about the Higgs mechanism in it.

I don't know why we're talking about experimental predictions rather than mathematics. The standard model makes insanely good predictions. The experimental tests are on a par with those of GR and its current mathematical foundation is pretty much entirely lacking.

Edit: fundamentally this has nothing to do with the actual difference of opinion we're having. You took issue with me claiming that Higgs' work is as "theoretical" as Penrose, but I think you're using "theoretical" in a way that's rather different to how I use it. Yours seems to be almost synonymous with "rigorous" or even "mathematical", but I think there is a significant difference between "theoretical physics" and "mathematical physics".. Odd phrasing to do so. I neglected to point out that ridiculous as the concept of knighthood is, people of many countries have been awarded this, Bill Gates for example and whatever you think about him it is undeniable that he has had a notable career and life.. >You are weirdly aggressive about this. 

On the contrary, I'm stating this pretty much matter-of-factly. It's not "weirdly aggressive" to call a spade a spade. Incidentally, the guy Penrose does this work with, Stuart Hameroff, hangs out with and has many points of agreement with [Deepak Chopra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEQeRBZcScY).

>Physics has had way more outlandish ideas 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDYba0m6ztE. >He's been pushing the microtubule idea for at least that long. 

The microtubule crap comes from Stuart Hameroff (Deepak Chopra's buddy), which got in contact with Penrose after and partly as a result of TENM, so no, it's not at least that long. As I said: it's either some form of likely age-related cognitive decline or the guy's brain simply shuts off when it comes to this subject (what I "like" has nothing to do with it -- the ideas are _objectively_ nonsensical). I think the former is more charitable.. I would imagine that's because you don't understand what I'm saying. Miscommunication is not fun.. Anything inspiring is good in my eyes. Its just that in life we can be tempted to create structures that help us in the present but can be taken and abused later. I think habitually grouping people in our minds on the basis of immutable characteristics is blinding because those characteristics do not define the personality and actual function that the person  performs. But again, inspiration is important and feeling capable is important, but maybe not based on immutable characteristics that divide us. I think we are moving away from those things and should let them go. So maybe we totally agree on the goal of everyone being able to be anything they want to be, but disagree on how to make it happen.. I don't think that. I just don't think we should treat people differently because of their immutable characteristics and for some reason a bunch of people disagree with me. Did everyone drink the crazy water?. He did see gravitational deflection of light and the results seemed to be more in line with general relativistic predictions than Newtonian predictions, but it wasn't strong enough evidence to "prove" Einstein's theories. Examples of strong gravitational lensing found in the 70s provided much more concrete evidence. I agree with everything you said. And what you said about Bohr and Heisenberg - I believe also. I’ve always felt that way about the Copenhagen interpretation. They even got de Broglie to stop working on pilot-wave theory, and he did. Then David Bohm came along and look how awesome it turned out. It almost feels like the reason we’re dealt with the “shut up and calculate” is because of Heisenberg and Bohr, lol.. I disagree entirely that entanglement was the reason for Einstein disliking Copenhagen. He was already throwing theoretical rocks at it through the Solway conferences of 1927 and 1930, almost ten years before the EPR paper.. Where are you any of that getting that from? 

I'm not comparing Einstein to Bohr and/or Heisenberg and I'm not mentioning his effort in destroying people, just that he was principled in his beliefs of what reality was and how it could or should be and his collaborations were impacted by that trait.

Copenhagen is the most widely taught. Most people don't really have to put a lot of thought into it, because it makes no difference to the predictions. I think this explains it's popularity but the increasing willingness to think about the interpretation--and being introduced to new ones--has made it decrease a little in popularity but, it's still the largest demographic. 

None of them are provable yet and many if not all are extremely speculative. I dont really think I'm informed enough to pick one, to be honest.
I do however disagree with avoiding the important questions altogether as the Copenhagen interpretation does.. Well, I said *classical physics* breaks down.  In more technical
terms: GR as an initial value problem has no long time solutions.  The
two common cases that can happen are.

* Some physical quantity like curvature blows up, e.g. the space-like
singularity in a Schwarzschild BH
* A Cauchy horizon shows up, i.e. GR stops being deterministic (and
other mathematical havoc) and time travel becomes possible.  The
second event horizon of the Kerr solution is an example

There are other pathological examples listed in Bob Wald’s introductory
chapter, IIRC one which is space-like geodesically incomplete.  I
doubt they are of any physically relevance, but better check the
references yourself

---

ED: The interesting thing here is that this is doomed to happen.
E.g. you can’t avoid it by tuning initial conditions.

You have something similar with the three body problem and Newtonian
gravity.  There are initial conditions in which one particle will
reach infinity in a finite time.

But this can easily fixed by using more realistic mass distributions
instead of point particles.  There is no such fix for general
relativity.  You can’t avoid the breakdown of GR — unless you
introduce negative energy — with some new state of matter.  Our model
of spacetime itself has to be fixed in such extreme situations. I think my previous comment explains why AQFT does not satisfactorily include a rigorous definition of the Higgs mechanism.

> I don't know why we're talking about experimental predictions

Because you are the one who introduced that into the conversation.

Edit:
> I think you're using "theoretical" in a way that's rather different to how I use it. Yours seems to be almost synonymous with "rigorous" or even "mathematical", but I think there is a significant difference between "theoretical physics" and "mathematical physics".

If you think there is a significant difference between "theoretical physics" and "mathematical physics" and categorize Penrose on the theoretical side with Higgs, I think that means you don't really understand Penrose's work.. > but it wasn't strong enough evidence

So, did people think there might have been a different explanation for the observations? Or were they not reproducible for some reason, or not reliable enough due to a lack of accuracy in the optical instruments?

Trying to grasp how this was not clear evidence.. Moreover, when Hugh Everett was writing his thesis, his advisor John Wheeler edited it to make sure it wouldn't offend Bohr's sensibilities or take it as a direct challenge.. > Where are you any of that getting that from?
> 
> 
> 
> I'm not comparing Einstein to Bohr and/or Heisenberg and I'm not mentioning his effort in destroying people, just that he was principled in his beliefs of what reality was and how it could or should be and his collaborations were impacted by that trait.

Again where are you getting that from? Also what you said sounded a lot stronger than just him being "principled in his beliefs" whatever that is supposed to mean when it comes to science. Obviously Einstein thought he was right, but so do most scientists 

>Copenhagen is the most widely taught.

Well not even strict Copenhagen but one of the millions of versions of it is the most taught despite it immediately falling apart on closer inspection.

> I think this explains it's popularity but the increasing willingness to think about the interpretation--and being introduced to new ones--has made it decrease a little in popularity but, it's still the largest demographic. 

The popularity comes from a couple things, physicists being drawn to logical positivism despite it being a completely dead philosophical thought is one such reason, and one of the major reasons Bohr lays out for why he thought Copenhagen was correct, eventhough at the time already Logical Positivism was dying outside of Physics.

Another reasons is how viciously anyone was attacked that strayed away from the orthodoxy. Bohm was chased out of America for daring to question it, Dieter Zeh was tenured but quite openly stated that if he wasn't he would've been thrown out and always discouraged his students from taking on questions of Quantum Foundations. It is no coincidence Bell was a particle physicist and not someone deeply imbedded inside the community. Bohr and his followers had a lot influence and used it to silence any dissent where they could.

>None of them are provable yet and many if not all are extremely speculative. I dont really think I'm informed enough to pick one, to be honest. I do however disagree with avoiding the important questions altogether as the Copenhagen interpretation does.

You don't need to be able to explicitly proof something in order make statements about its validity. Let's talk about the easiest thing in the world, not any of the million derrivative versions but the original Bohr Copenhagen interpretation. It states quite clearly that there are two separate worlds, the Quantum World and the classical world, and that different rules apply here, that there is a sharp cutoff between them etc. etc. With todays knowledge we know for a fact that this just isn't true.

And if we go more generally to other Copenhagen interpretations, they introduce concepts such as "wave function collapse" through "measurement". Note that this is different from so called Spontaneous Collapse theories, which try to introduce a mechanism for how this would work, in the Copenhagen interpretation these concepts are just divined and then stated.

If you look at actual experts dealing with these kinds of questions, Copenhagen has not been able to deal with these sorts of problems in a coherent enough way to not die. I'm not telling you to pick one interpretation I am telling you that you can (and should) discard one. In the same way you'd discard any other nonsense interpretation that has obvious flaws.. 1) that’s neat about the 3BP, gotta source?

2) what if we say “okay, GR+exotic matter=GR is fixed” and then hunt for exotic matter? How active is that search compared to the search for DM?. It was mostly the experimental uncertainty being too high, combined with a little bit of "maybe newton is wrong but that doesn't mean Einstein is right". Really? Damn, I’m suprised and honestly, a little disappointed. The fact that anyone could feel that way - especially in a physics, is absolutely wrong in my opinion. And even worse, I think that if Wheeler never edited it then Bohr actually would have been offended. The Nobel Prize in Physics 2021. nan. One half to Giorgio Parisi for his discovery of hidden patterns in disordered complex materials; the other half given to Klaus Hasselmann for creating a model that links together weather and climate proving the increased temperature in the atmosphere is due to human emissions of carbon dioxide, and to Syukuro Manabe for demonstrating how increased levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere lead to increased temperatures at the surface of the Earth.

[Livestream / Video](https://youtu.be/LJJoPCtgpQI). Klaus Hasselmann is associated with the university where I study meteorology.

We are a very small faculty but there is a strong community, a lot more so than the general physics faculty, although I never met this man personally. 

Seeing he has won a Nobel prize makes me so proud and happy for him!. I'm so happy for Parisi. [deleted]. Excuse me, Italy, what the...

\- Eurovision winners  
  
\- Football Euro winners  
  
\- Historical record of 40 Olympic medals  
  
\- Historical record of 10 Olympic gold medals  
  
\- Fastest runner in the world (100m Olympic champion)  
  
\- Highest jumper in the world (high jump Olympic champion)  
  
\- 69 medals at the Paralympics  
  
\- Volleyball Euro winners - women...  
  
\- ...and men  
  
\- Nobel Prize in physics. Climate change deniers think they are smarter than these people btw. For those curious, here’s a [blog post](https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/blog_held/19-radiative-convective-equilibrium/ ) by one of Manabe’s former students covering one of his more significant contributions: using 1-D Radiative-Convective models to study climate change.. Hmm, seems a pretty heterogeneous bag, but then I only know Parisi's work on spin glasses.. Kinda don't like the idea of splitting it about two things like this. Hasselmann is cool. He introduced Feynman diagrams to oceanography.
https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/RG004i001p00001. [deleted]. Are Hasselmann and Manabe the first meteorologists to win Nobel Prize?. Does anybody have  good link to an explanation of the modeling half of the prize? I spent 20 minutes this morning browsing around and only came away with "something something vertical transport".. The climate and environment are critically important, as everyone knows from daily front page disasters that will increase.

I have a PhD in physics and have made sustainability my mission. I wish I didn't have to as fixing problems past generations stuck us with isn't my first passion, but I can't change the past.

As important as the science was to get us here, we have to move to the next stage, which is leadership. I don't mean just passing laws. Even prior to our twin problems of overconsumption and overpopulation, the damage we're suffering is the physical manifestation of our values, especially material growth, extraction, efficiency, externalizing costs, and comfort and convenience. Technology, innovation, laws, and markets augment those values. As long as we hold them as a culture and individuals, we will innovate technologies, laws, and markets that exacerbate the problem.

I will always support more research and value these scientists' work that enabled us to get past the science to restoring our values of stewardship: personal growth, enjoying what we have, humility to nature, resilience, responsibility for how our behavior affects others, meaning, purpose, and the satisfaction of a job well done. With those values, we will innovate solutions that increase Earth's ability to sustain life.

Again, as important as the science is, we must restore our personal and cultural values to solve the problems science revealed. That's leadership and teamwork. We can all act immediately. Since systemic change begins with personal transformation, the fastest, most effective way to change governments and corporations is to act here and now, learn from the experience, act more, and lead others to join.. Is there a link to their paper(s)?. This seems a strange pairing of awards. 

Linking parisis award to the other implies the patterns in complex systems contributed to the understanding of climate. 

Is this really physics ?  It’s more maths or chemistry.. [removed]. [removed]. I don't understand... How is climate change related to physics?. I don't really think it's okay to split the award between 3 people. Оf course they all contributed, but I think it would be more rational to award it to one person.. The team consisting of Germany, Italy, and Japan won this time :D. I don’t get how individual get Nobel prizes these days. Its more a team effort and they seem to be the lead.. [deleted]. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. This sounds really interesting!. [removed]. cool. It’s Giovanni Giorgio!. Could you imagine test banning use of motor vehicles in inner cities and or towns, imagine actually having to walk or ride a bike to work everyday, bizarre.. [removed]. Yet we can only approximate fluid dynamics, but we know the human biology more than ever. 

We are so far from knowing, but we have made incredible strides.. Just in time for the EV push!. Can someone explain those two theories in easy way so that I can explain someone else like they are five years old. I am from science background (engineering) but physics isn't my department. Hope you understand.. Fantastic stuffs. Italy strikes again!!! 💪. Manabe is a legend within the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. Such a privilege to have worked with him.. Giorgio Parisi was one of my professors in Rome
:D. [removed]. >	One half to Giorgio Parisi for his discovery of hidden patterns in disordered complex materials

Having read *Chaos* a long while ago, this fascinates me but I know I have no ability to actually understand what he discovered.. [deleted]. Proving is a pretty strong word for such a chaotic system.. [https://scienceline.org/2021/10/scientists-studying-climate-and-disorder-win-nobel-prize-in-physics/](https://scienceline.org/2021/10/scientists-studying-climate-and-disorder-win-nobel-prize-in-physics/) here's an article from NYU about it as well, read it earlier.. Look up: solar forcing. I heard he used to be friends with Merkel. Is that true?. UHH? The general physics department is big, but I think most are based at DESY so maybe you don't see them in the city campus?. Congrats. I was applied math and com sci and had many classes with you guys. You meteorology guys are super smart, excellent teachers and brilliant in deep thinking due to wave tanks, O.D.E., P.D.E. and lots of very cold beer. Congrats again so proud of you!. I mean, you have the DKRZ, which is not particularly small. Also having worked at UHH/DESY I found the physics community to be fairly strong and interdisciplinary.. Big one for statistical mechanics. Nicola Cabibbo should have won it too.. Nobel Prize isn't about the best science, his will states something along the lines of greatest contribution to humanity. Do you have any details on his work in statistical dynamics, by chance? I just read an article about the award and I am quite intrigued.. Also just won Paris-Roubaix cycling race.. Fun fact: if you are an Italian Nobel prize winner you are automatically appointed to the equivalent of parliament for the rest of your life. Always thought that was interesting.. We also won Under 21 volleyball IIRC. ROMA INVICTA. Many saints of Newark. [removed]. Climate physics is essentially a gigantic amount of problems in nonlinear dynamics and complex systems. They are extremely related, more than many people (physicists included) think.. ["for groundbreaking contributions to our understanding of complex systems ... Three Laureates share this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics for their studies of chaotic and apparently random phenomena"](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2021/summary/)  


All involve prediction of overall, long-term, behavior in complex, dynamic, chaotic systems.. They split it fairly often. Last year it was sold between theory and observation which involve completely unrelated skills. 2009 was optical fibers and CCD. 2005 was split. 2002 was split between solar neutrinos and astro xray sources. And many more before those.. Happened in 2019, between Peebles for theoretical work on discovering phyiscal things in space and Mayor & Queloz for discovering the first (not actually though, poor Latham et al.) exoplanet around a sun-like star.

And Parisi and Manabe & Hasselmann's work isn't unrelated I don't think, right?. I s this related to [Wyld diagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Navier-Stokes_equations#Wyld_diagrams)?. It’s not the same committee nor is that article a good representation of the work behind the economics prize.. Nordhaus wasn’t awarded for that one paper written *after* the prize was awarded, and it’s worth noting that Steve Keen is hardly unbiased here.. That article isn't good, it's just an author who is angry because with his methodology he wasn't able to get his papers in one of the top five journals of economics.

Look, there are a number of critiques in the Nordhaus model, but the thing is: Making a model about the Social Cost of Carbon started being influential with him, and this is the way we can calculate the Optimal Number for the Carbon Tax.

And yes, even the Nobel Prize acknowledges that depending on the variables of the model, the estimates differ widly and many agree that Nordhaus old model was very conservative, but we today have this approach of calculating the SCC even if more aggressively because it started there, because of him.

[Here, look at page 37, this is from the Nobel Prize itself](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2018/10/advanced-economicsciencesprize2018.pdf). That's the "Sveriges Riksbanks Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel", given out by the central bank of Sweden since 1969. It wasn't established by Alfred Nobel.. Yeah but we are not sure that economist is wrong. And it is one of those cases where we don't want to be sure either.. It probably depends somewhat on your definition of meteorologist, but the Peace Prize in 2007 went to the IPCC, the Chemistry Prize in 1995(?) went to Molina, Rowland, and Crutzen for ozone depletion, and the 1947 Physics Prize went to Appleton for the ionosphere (at least, this may not be an exhaustive list).. Manabe: first model linking convection and radiation.
Hasselmann: showing that robust signals emerge in the long term even if weather is chaotic. Essentially showing there such a thing as a “climate”.. >I have a PhD in physics and have made sustainability my mission. I wish I didn't have to as fixing problems past generations stuck us with isn't my first passion, but I can't change the past.

So, what you're saying is that all my projects cleaning up other people's messes are really just preparing me for participating in the biggest cleanup cause in history?. Love seeing this sentiment here. I couldn’t agree more.
“People everywhere try so hard to make the world better. Their intentions are admirable, yet they seek to change everything but themselves. To make yourself a better person is to make the world a better place. Who develops industries that fill the air and water with toxic waste? How did we humans become immune to the plight of refugees, or hardened to the suffering of animals raised to be slaughtered? Until we transform ourselves, we are like mobs of angry people screaming for peace. In order to move the world we have to be able to stand still in it… Nothing is more essential for the twenty-first century and beyond than personal transformation. -Mingyur Rinpoche. I love this, and agree about the importance of leadership and culture change being more effective than simply passing laws and expecting companies not to find workarounds.

Do you mind sharing how you intersect physics and sustainability? Until very recently I thought I would need to career hop away from physics (now engineering) to start working in sustainability.. the only continent that have issues with overpopulation, i.e cant afford to feed them self and produce offspring as pension fund, is africa, and the only reason they cant feed them self and produce off spring for pension fund is that they havnt industrialized.
once they finally industrialize, they too can feed them self and wont be needing offspring when they retire. [removed]. I would love the link as well. scihub is your friend ;). Manabe’s work mostly involved problems of fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, and radiative transfer. Not much chemistry that I’m aware of.. Whether or not that counts as “physics” is obviously a matter of definition and opinion.. >Is this really physics ? It’s more maths or chemistry

 Complex physical systems like climate have been studied for decades and without a doubt comes under physics. Ranging from non linear dynamics to atmospheric physics and fluid dynamics. It's physics at multiple levels. 

I'm quite annoyed as to other streams of physics and the students of these "pure" physics streams deciding on what to call physics. As a phd student working with statistical mechanics and complex adaptive systems I've felt this stigma all around me. I have encountered graduate students working in field theory, GR, astrophysics who regards us as secondary subjects. 

It's high time noble recognises this as part of physics and award it as a deserving recognisable field.. In my uni, oceanography, climate and meteorology (and also geodynamics, seismology and solid earth geophysics, but they're less relevant here) are dealt with in the physics department. 
And up to recently they received almost no funding for that exact behaviour of "but that's not physics".. > Is this really physics ? It’s more maths or chemistry.

This question is asked every year.. I've got a roommate and a couple friends studying meteorology (which isn't climatology, strictly speaking, but it shares a lot of common elements). There's a little bit of chemistry involved, but they say that it's mostly physics. Lots of fluid dynamics, radiation transfer, etc.. >Is this really physics ?  It’s more maths or chemistry.

Particle and Aero dynamics is definitely physics.. Are the prizes necessarily linked and imply some connection between topics?

Either way, certainly complex system patterns contribute to climate understanding, and certainly this is a physical problem, primarily a statistical mechanical/fluid dynamic problem.. >It's more maths or chemistry

More like earth science (climate science, oceanography etc).. [deleted]. I have always thought that Nobel prize in physics is supposed to go to the scientists who had discovered a new law of nature. Giving it for numerical modelling suggests that either the lineup of candidates was not very strong this year, or that committee was motivated by considerations other than scientific quality.. Take half class of climate physics and you'll understand. It's thermo-fluid mechanics and non linear dynamics at its finest.
There should be  many more physicists working on it.

Same with other earth physics related theme, like seismology, geodynamics, etc.... This is a good write up you might find interesting! https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-021-02703-3?utm_source=twt_nat&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=nature. Every climatologist is a physicist. They use the same tools as other physicists. Difference is that climatologists start specialisation on their third year (at least in Croatia).

Fun fact: one of those 3 is coauthor of Quantum Mechanics book we use in third year of physics undergrad.. This is a good question and should not have been downvoted.. The Italian gets 50% and the Japanese and German get 25% each since they worked together. 3 prizes but they split the money. They do it all the time, for instance...The Nobel Prize in Physics 1903 was divided, one half awarded to Antoine Henri Becquerel "in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity", the other half jointly to Pierre Curie and Marie Curie, née Sklodowska "in recognition of the extraordinary services they .... They did it decades ago... It takes time for work to be recognized for the Nobel Prize.. They did do it decades ago, that's why they got the prize.. [removed]. The fact that this is being downvoted completely supports the reason for this comment being posted in the first place.. [removed]. [removed]. These peoples brains are just built different haha. which book do you mean?. No, Manabe’s contribution is some of the earliest models that correctly predicted the severity of climate change. If there was going to be a Nobel Prize for climate science, Manabe is probably the most obvious pick.. No, he won it "for the physical modelling of Earth's climate". He and Weatherall(?) had a really great paper in the 60’s showing how CO2 radiation trapping increases the H2O concentration (which in much larger) which increases the overall heating.. yeah this seems... off. That's not exactly new knowledge. i know we like to hate on the green house effect, but it is very useful, and also feasable if folks just dont cut the costs. its the costs that makes it impractical or destructive.. The Subject Matter Expert has spoken. Nobel winners should hand it over to this dude.. Proving is a strong word for any system regardless of order. It’s only used here because it’s awkward to say demonstrating twice. Semantics aside the data has shown and continues to demonstrate their models to be accurate and predictive.. I don’t know about friends, according to [this article by German newspaper FAZ (very reputable)](https://m.faz.net/aktuell/politik/ausland/physik-nobelpreis-fuer-klaus-hasselmann-merkels-klimamagier-17570881.html) they’ve met once while she was environmental minister. [Google translation is here.](https://m-faz-net.translate.goog/aktuell/politik/ausland/physik-nobelpreis-fuer-klaus-hasselmann-merkels-klimamagier-17570881.html?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=de&_x_tr_pto=nui).

Edit: just had a glance at the actual translation results and wow, they’re bad. Sorry bout that. ;-). TBH I have no idea.. Yea their saying meteorology staff is small.. Yes I love most of the professors!

They are very kind humans as well as passionate about the subject.

I struggle a lot with passing exams and some of the meteorology professors would check on me and I could talk to them about the academic problems I was having, even if the biggest problem wasn't their class. Being part of it really helped me make it as far as I did.. I meant Munich and The Max Planck Institute, not Hamburg, sorry if I didn't make that clear!. It's amazing how in seemingly utterly disconnected subs you still find some commonalities.

Cycling in a physics subreddit. Who would've thought.

Though Colbrelli deserved it, I was still rooting for Vermeersch who I considered the best man in the race.. Parisi-Roubaix.. This is the crossover I’m here for haha. And Ganna dominating the TT at worlds.. There is no automatic appointment to parliament for Nobel laureates. The president of the Italian Republic has the right to appoint someone to the Italian Senate as a life-long senator for merits in the arts, sciences or other services to the country. This can include Nobel laureates (as was the case for Carlo Rubbia or Rita Levi Montalcini), but it is by no means automatic.. [deleted]. Also, it is not really split. Climate physics essentially is nonlinear dynamics and complex systems modelling applied to fluids.. It happened in 2019 because they didn’t want to give the 3rd to a known sexist. It’s weird to keep doing it now. Each this year have only won half a prize and there’s no reason for it.. I didn't pay attention in 2019 tbh, but it's the same argument

I know it's not totally unrelated, but it feels unsatisfactory. A classic case of yes, but no.
Each Feynman diagramm is a representation of an individual term of a perturbation series. Perturbation series are used all the time in fluid dynamics.

The difference here is that Wyld diagrams are used for turbulence, while Hasselmann worked on waves. I must admit that I am not too familiar with Wyld diagrams but it seems like Wyld might have used them before Hasselmann started using Feynman diagrams for nonlinear waves. 

So the technique should be very similar but used in different contexts.. Can you give a better overview of his work then? I've looked, and I really can't find anything that makes it sound any better than "lol, don't worry about climate change bro". It seems based on a wide variety of terribly flawed assumptions and seems totally at odds with an environmental agenda.

I'll admit that I don't have the background to understand his paper directly, so I have to rely on 2nd hand sources.. Have more recent approaches been modified to account for deeper systemic variables? A big part of my issue from my understanding of Nordhaus's work is how surface level it seems - completely neglecting far reaching ramifications of climate change (which ultimately have a notable affect on the economy) beyond how it directly affects industry.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Thanks a lot!. Three relatively easy wins for environment and society: live car free if you can, eat less (ideally no) meat and avoid fast fashion.. >or hardened to the suffering of animals raised to be slaughtered

Not to detract from the thrust of your message which is a great and important one, but I always wonder when I see stuff like this said: are you vegan?. It's a long story, but the highlights are that I left academia to bring to market an invention, which succeeded then failed, went to business school, where I discovered leadership classes and took a strong interest in how to learn and teach the social and emotional skills of leadership (also learned about project-based learning).

Then I did something I didn't expect to make much difference in my life. Recognizing how much garbage I produced filling a load a week, I challenged myself to go a week without buying any packaged food. I thought going without would be horrible. Instead learning to cook from fresh was the opposite of my expectation: it ended up cheaper, faster, more accessible, and more delicious.

I acted on more environmental values and found I enjoyed each change. Now I haven't flown (by choice) since 2016, haven't emptied my trash since 2019, and my CO2 footprint is about 1 ton according to online calculators, a drop of about 90 percent.

If this story sounds interesting, I share more in my [TEDx talks](https://joshuaspodek.com/tedx) and [podcast](https://joshuaspodek.com/podcast). The [500th episode](https://shows.acast.com/leadership-and-the-environment/episodes/500-this-podcasts-next-milestone) recaps a lot.

I think the most important changes are in culture: our values, stories, beliefs, role models, images. There's some engineering work that could help, but as long as we value growth and the others I mentioned, most innovation will exacerbate our problems. If we make a polluting system more efficient, we may reduce some pollution locally, but systemically we'll pollute more efficiency. That's what we've done the past several centuries. We're more efficient than ever and polluting more than ever. Most "solutions" coming from Silicon Valley, Washington DC, and academia are what I call "stepping on the gas, thinking it's the brake, and wanting congratulations.". The abstract reads " It is conceivable that this new type of resonance might play a role in explaining the 10\^5 year peak in the power spectra of paleoclimatic records", what it is about? googling it I found the paper [unwalled](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.3402/tellusa.v34i1.10782) but I still couldn't understand what it was about although I only read the introduction (part 1/5).

Anyway in the introduction is interesting that Hasselmann is cited "Hasselman (1976) pointed out the general possibility of short-time scale phenomena, modelled as stochastic perturbations, affecting long-term climate variations." and if I'm not wrong the referenced work is actually the one that won him the Nobel, so it seems at the end of the day all is connected.. There's always work worthy of a prize. Most laureates are at or past retirement age because they make an enormous contribution, then wait for decades until the full gravity of their work is realized. People like Wolfgang Ketterle who receive the Nobel Prize in their 40s are unusual. Even Donna Strickland, who was awarded for work she did as a graduate student, had to wait more than 30 years. Deciding who gets the prize is a delicate balance between awarding achievements that are obviously profound (Ketterle), recognizing a lifetime of major contributions (Peebles, Penrose), and celebrating work that is just now being validated or recognized as important (Syuguro and Hasselmann, Higgs and Englert, etc.).. [deleted]. 100% agree.. [removed]. nah, its a skill. the physics looks gibberish to someone who hasnt taken calculus 3 (partial, which is essentially rate of change in x, y and z axis of stuff that moves in all 3 axis', which is almost all of real life phenomenon) and wee bit of physics and chem. it takes time to read but not to grasp. its just the symbols that seem very intimidating, but it ia very doable, and even you can grasp it, trust me. you'll see words thrown around like 'gradient' and vector field but gradient is just rate of change in 3d and vector field is jus a field full of particles, all moving in different directions.. jus an example, sorry to make it too long but dont be discouraged. They are the chess bunch. The rest of us are the checkers and a few chipped marbles.. [This one.](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64582.Chaos). Exactly nothing to do with climate change per se. His was literally the first climate model linking radiation and convection.

Hate it that all headlines say global warming. Add: nothing against it. I just don’t like the political overtone. The work is superb by itself.. I think this is one of those years-late prizes for a model older than most redditors.. Most Nobel prizes are given for a development with a significance that only became evident after a prolonged period of time. The window between discovery and prize is often long for the very reason that its significance is often only apparent in retrospect.. Peter Higgs won the Nobel Prize in 2013 for work he did in 1964.. I think Penrose and Chandrasekar would like a word with you. It's interesting that I am getting so many downvotes, yet you're the only person to actually engage in a discussion. This subject appears pretty dogmatic.. Use deepl instead, their ai translation is usually much better.

>Angela Merkel and Klaus Hasselmann met when the chancellor was still environment minister. He provided her with the data for the climate summit in Kyoto. His award of the Nobel Prize in Physics is also a political signal.


>Klaus Hasselmann must have seemed like a mathematical magician to Angela Merkel when they met in Hamburg. She, the young environment minister in Kohl's cabinet, and he, the renowned climate scientist, walked through the campus together. Two physicists. Hasselmann was the undisputed expert on what was then already scientifically referred to as climate catastrophe. And Hasselmann sounded just like Merkel at the time, as we are used to hearing from striking schoolgirls today: activist.


>The only difference was that Hasselmann had the knowledge of physics and the mathematical tools in his head that Merkel urgently needed to prepare for the third world climate summit in Kyoto. So the founding director of the Hamburg Max Planck Institute for Meteorology took the young minister for a walk and explained what the world might look like in twenty, fifty, and a hundred years, probably even in the year 3,000, because that's how far Hasselmann's model projections reached. And Merkel? For her, this was new territory, fascinating.

>Hasselmann was very sure of himself. His socioeconomic models, "dynamic, integrated multi-actor models," which were still in their infancy at the time, were full-blown economic computer models that were used to estimate climate change impacts and caused quite a stir in the research community. That's because, with their links to economics and politics, they had what it took to make the political class more accountable for rigid climate policies. What the models spat out, however, was obviously indigestible to most of the powerful at the time. Coffee-table talk was still one of the more genteel formulations. Hasselmann's hypercomplex models did not develop political clout for a long time.

>What satisfaction, therefore, it must be for the Hamburg native, now nearly ninety years old, that the prize committee awarded him - along with Japanese Earth system modeler Syukuro Manabe - one half of the Nobel Prize in Physics. Not for his socioeconomic models, but for his fundamental work in developing the first comprehensive atmospheric-ocean models. With them, he proved in Hamburg and temporarily at the Scripps Institute in La Jolla, as well as at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, what is still highly explosive politically today - and what physics dilettantes are still lobbying against today: that climate models are based on solid physics and can make sound predictions of the world's climate, even if the weather can only be reliably predicted for a few days. Seen in this light, Hasselmann's and Manabe's award is also one of the rare political messages from the Physics Nobel Prize Committee to the world.

>Source: F.A.Z. 

[Deepl](deepl.com). Honestly I could imagine some physicists being cyclists. For some reason they both seem like refined pursuits. Isn't the important part of Manabe's model the fact that it accounts for the feedback effects in radiative transfer? It is a nonlinear effect by definition.
And I don't think the Nobel was assigned for the "basic lesson" about global warming, but for the development of the first quantitative model that could reproduce the phenomenon.
Also, the work by Lorenz is incredibly important for the development of Chaos theory, but that's not the only aspect of nonlinear dynamics, which was 5 decades old at that point (see the works by Poincaré on the stability of the solar system).. To be completely frank, it has been split. Parisi has a host of solid work on QFT, QCD, spin glass and lattice gauge theories, which don't really have much to do with nonlinear dynamics and chaotic models as a field. The Nobel committee has used the nebulous terms "disorder" and "fluctuations" to try and shoehorn them together, but there isn't much connection between the two awards.. I think calling Marcy a "sexist" undersells serial harassment, a bit. It's also not guaranteed that he would have won either. Mayor and Queloz were first definitely first (ignoring pulsars) and they were only two on the paper. [That finding was then confirmed by Marcy and Butler, as well as another team of eight. Another group of three followed up the lightcurve for pulsations.](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1995IAUC.6251....1M/abstract) There wasn't an obvious third.. Who was the sexist? Latham?. Science has gotten too broad for the categories to have much meaning or have enough years to cover many equally meaningful works, so the campaigns for each different group will occasionally work out such compromises.. Well it’s been going on for decades.. Thank you very much. Naaa you are correct. Nordhaus and co. are borderline criminals with their economic models.. [removed]. Yes, on page 37 of the link of the Nobel Prize they speak about their estimates of the SCC

Here's the paper: https://www.osti.gov/etdeweb/biblio/20838308

By their conclusion we should be using hundreds of times the tax on carbon we use today.. That’s because it is. But people were very happy that someone told them that Climate change is not a real problem.. Click [the link](https://www.nobelprize.org/uploads/2018/10/advanced-economicsciencesprize2018.pdf), go to the page 37 and you'll see the results when you input to the model the objective to limit to a 2.5°C max, the same can be done to a 1.5°C limit. As I said many criticized correctly that his estimates were too conservative, but that doesn't matter when he created a model that let's you correct it by saying x objective is the one that should be aimed at, that's why he received the Nobel, because of the creation of the model and not because of the results of his estimates

For the other points you brought, the paper Stern Review from 2006, which I linked in another comment, corrects for it. [removed]. It's not given out by the Nobel committee, it's given out by the central bank of Sweden, but it is presented at the Nobel ceremony as though it were a regular Nobel prize. It's pretty much a fake Nobel prize tbh.. I’m not but I’m definitely sympathetic and try and keep my meat consumption down. We evolved as meat eaters so there can’t be anything inherently wrong with us, an animal, eating another animal. But with that understanding of our place on the tree of life, as just another branch, our subjugation of other forms of life to existences like those found in factory farming is barbaric and has to be seen as one of our species most terrible acts. Life has been evolving on earth for over 3 billion years and we have the gall to lock some of its creations up in pens and never let them see the sun. Finding solutions to feed ourselves without these practices is paramount to come back to some balance with nature, both psychologically and in regards to getting a handle on our changing of the climate.. I want to stress that I don't think this is all the theory for which Parisi won the nobel. This is just one of the first steps.

&#x200B;

What is stochastic resonance? Let's consider a very simple model for climate dynamics during very long times (thousands of years). The variable you are studying is the temperature T(t) (which is the average on all the Earth and on tens or hundreds of years). We know the temperature of the Earth in the last million years (we know it from isotopes of oxygen) and we see a periodic behavior between two temperatures T1 (cold climate) and T2 (hot climate). Now let's get to the model. What makes T vary can be classified in two groups: fast things (or fast variables)(that happen during months or years) and slow things (or slow variables)(that happen during decades or centuries). In the slow things there are orbital parameters changes which are periodic. Fast things are difficult to define so you model it with a random variable (a white noise with a certain amplitude).  

&#x200B;

Now the result. If you look at the equations, without the fast variables and the periodic changes in the slow variables, you see two possible states for the system (two equilibrium states) T1 and T2, but there is no way to move from one to the other. If you now add the periodic change in the orbital parameters (but you don't add yet the noise) you see that the system oscillates around one of the equilibrium states but there can't be any transition from T1 to T2 or vice versa. Now if you add also the noise you (Parisi, Vulpiani et al) notice that there's now the possibility for transition between equilibrium states (as observed experimentally). (If you have the noise but you don't have the periodic term, there are transitions but they are irregular, you can't say when you are going to transit from one state to the other, it's random). If the amplitude of the noise is in a given interval, then the transitions are synchronous with the periodic changes of the orbital parameters (approximately as observed). 

&#x200B;

source: "Probabilità in Fisica: Un'Introduzione" A. Vulpiani, G. Boffetta. But mathematicians don't study with us. Climatologists do. They go two years with us, then choose to pursue geoPHYSICS.

And when I said they use the same I meant that  they use the same methods as we and study physics. Just different kind than let's say particle physics. Physics isn't just about electrons, quarks, stars and black holes. It's about literary any natual phenomena we can observe, including weather and climate.. [removed]. [removed]. I agree. I ended up taking a class on fluid visualization during my exchange semester in Germany. Probably the most complex class I ever took. I essentially had to jump from Calculus I to Multivariate Calculus in 1 semester. It seemed impossible at first, but once you learn the terminology, some formulas, and some real-life applications, it all starts making a lot more sense. One of the most interesting things I've studied. 

And my background is Computer Science and Business (mainly business tbh, haven't coded in years).. Exactly, everything seems complicated when you first try to understand it. I bet we all though speaking and writing English was complex when we first attempted it. 

Physics is just another set of symbols and rules that govern those symbols. 😊. Well… sort of. Calc 3 (multivariate calculus) as a tool in geometry is only useful for Euclidian space. Modern physics requires tensor calculus, ergodic theory, and complex (the number group) Hilbert spaces. You can get away with a lot using multivariate calculus — namely the entire fields of classical mechanics and classical electrodynamics are built around it. But even then, you’d need to be able to work partial differential equations, and then of course extension into Euler’s laws of motion, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics, and then any theorems you might need to solve specific problems. 

I *do agree* though, that all of the above can be studied and built up with practice in a short time if you’re dedicated to learning it. But, yea its not inherently unknowable or completely impossible; once you get the patterns down, each subsequent paper you read or problem you work looks less and less like gibberish alien nonsense.. I just saw a tiktok about how calc 3 helped someone understand the secrets of the universe, as it were, and why all engineering formulas are similar. I was fascinated. Yeah, I am keeping this pov from a while, if I don't understand some very complex thing, I start learning about it, if I don't have any background knowledge on that thing, I start by learning fundamentals. Learning economics rn from very basics to understand higher level real world conepts of economics.. My college math course was just called Math.. Good man, thank you. Nothing is beyond your grasp if you’re willing to reach!. The fact that their brains are in fact built just like every one else’s makes this so much more interesting to me.. Yes and no 

Einstein had a statistically smaller brain and some other visible brain differences, was a fucking genius

Nikola Tesla had many traits that would be seen as autistic traits nowadays, same for Alan Turing, geniuses too

Autistic people are known to be "obsessed" (about as much as neurotypycal people are with socializing but that ain't the debate) with some subjects and really enjoy learning all about it, which helps in science (in everything else too, except not appearing weird) 

Where do you think the excentrique scientist trope comes from?

Yes it all still takes a lot of work, but it's easier when you enjoy it as much as most people (not just redditors, like 95% of the species) enjoy a night in the club. But before linearizing those highly non-linear partial differential equations (PDE) to make them numerically programmable for computing purposes, those equations are just rubbish. Most complex PDEs cannot be easily linearized so I keep wondering whether these physical models are the types that require extreme undertaking to linearize which would end up having to write programming codes of millions of lines long.. You have to link radiation to convection in order to get a correct water vapor feedback, which is what amplifies the (surprisingly small) radiative forcing of CO2 into something large enough that we should care about it.. Lol climate change = political overtone.. Yeah, because the attitude of "that's not physics" has meant that nobody cared about earth physics until recently. Thankfully (for me also ahah) it's changing rapidly.. It’s not dogma, it’s that this point has already  been discussed to death. No one wants to go out of their way to correct something that any regular on this sub is supposed to know. They probably suspect bad faith on your part, and I don’t entirely blame them.. A massive piece of context missing from the Merkel part of this story is that she has a PhD focusing on theoretical quantum chemistry, so she was by no means a mathematical slouch next to Hasselmann as the tone of the article would seem to imply.. Thanks good point, this is actually my experience too, for some reason I stuck with Google here (and didn’t check the quality of the result first).. For both physics and cycling it helps if you’re a little masochistic.. [deleted]. Similar to how the 2015 prize was nebulously connected by "topology in condensed matter physics" but was very obviously split between two extremely distinct applications of topology (which itself is incredibly broadly applicable in most fields of theoretical physics).. I assume they mean Geoff Marcy, who worked in exoplanets. Multiple harassment complaints became public around 2015. 

Lantham is unrelated, he and co-authors discovered what was thought to be the first exoplanet around a pulsar, it turned out it wasn't a planet.. [removed]. [deleted]. I see that, but they don't really explain what further parameters they're considering.

Climate change affects everything from crop growth and air quality to employee morale and market demands. It's so far reaching that any truly good faith effort to quantify its economic impact should be extremely explicit about what factors they are considering.. You're obviously immensely intelligent, and I do thank you for making what are, on balance, some very fine observations.

In particular, your comment 

>and we have the gall to lock some of its creations up in pens and never let them see the sun

leads right into a hypothetical I often think of. Have you ever seen Star Trek? And, if so, are you familiar with the [Prime Directive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Directive)? I often wonder about, if/when we make contact with intelligent extraterrestrial life (assuming it doesn't go horribly), will they be impressed with us? Perhaps we did well in discovering quantum mechanics so (relatively) quickly? But in that same vein, I can't help but expect that they will be aghast at how long it took us (if ever) to abandon our practice of eating sentient beings. That leads me to this comment:

>We evolved as meat eaters so there can’t be anything inherently wrong with us

Like I said, you're obviously very intelligent and, if I were to hazard a guess, you would never tolerate this kind of handwaving reasoning (ie. "this is how things are, therefore there can't be anything inherently wrong with it") for any other topic. You are doubtless well aware, but you are committing an a[ppeal to nature fallacy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_nature). 

Anyway, I won't take up too much more of your time, but I did want to write up this reply precisely because I think you're the kind of person who interrogates their most deeply held intuitions/habits. I certainly can't say that about everyone. Singer's *Animal Liberation* is where to look if you want to think about this more.. thank you very much, I think I didn't express myself well I didn't meant that Parisi won the Nobel because of stochastic resonance but commented that in that paper Parisi et al cite the work of Hasselmann and not any citation but in particular the work that would end mainly giving him (Hasselmann) the Nobel, which is kind of interesting.

I think I follow what your explanation but I fail to link it with the part in the abstract that says " It is conceivable that this new type of resonance might play a role in explaining the 10\^5 year peak in the power spectra of paleoclimatic records" could you say a bit more about it?. What about the mathematical physicists? Or mathematicians focused on physical problems? Applied mathematicians?. [removed]. [removed]. The lion’s share of the knowledge in any field is in its lexicon. Humans name things, like planting little flags.. I actually didn’t think English was all that complex when I first attempted it. Call me reactionary but I took the classic approach of “Dada” then “no” “mama” and then “more”. Admittedly I got stuck at that stage for some months but with time and persistence I broke through to “I want” and it’s been off to the races ever since.

Full disclosure, I didn’t over think things as much during that time in my life as I do now. There’s probably a lesson in that.. That's Maths. Physics is the relationship between those symbols and physical reality.. So, like Life, then.. I was mystified by circuits until my nonlinear FEA class, when my prof had us do some toy problems with electromagnetism and my brain was just like "oh all this solid mechanics stuff you learned is just a slightly tweak to these equations". I am not saying that CO2 is not important. But the work goes way beyond that. It forms the basis for all forecasting, including that little weather thingy app you have in your cellphone, hurricane prediction, seasonal forecast and yes, long term climate change.

Making it look like a climate change thing only belittles the contribution.. You would have to be extremely naive to think otherwise. Hahaha good point but I’m neither of those — I’m doing a course in the medical field and I haven’t sat on a bicycle in a few years. [removed]. Nominally the discount factor using fed interest rates in the economy today is 0.25%, in real terms it gives negatives yields. Anyone can change the discount factor and see how this results in different estimates. The evolution he did is that he considered a much much wider damage caused by climate change than nordhaus did. >but they don't really explain what further parameters they're considering.

[Here](http://mudancasclimaticas.cptec.inpe.br/~rmclima/pdfs/destaques/sternreview_report_complete.pdf), from page 55 until page 143. I may spend a good deal of my time thinking but I'm still as big a dummy as the next monkey, but I appreciate the kindness and send it back. Your thoughts are obviously deeply considered which is what I respect the most about anyone.

In the hypothetical of contact with intelligent extraterrestrial life my intuitions are varied. Evolution is so wildly creative that I find it difficult to speculate on what any species evolved under non Earth conditions would think of us. This actually goes to my later comments on meat eating.

I find no handwaving in the reasoning of evolutionary biology that things are what they are for no other reason then they are. I am not saying that our eating meat is *good* because it is natural, I am saying it simply *is* natural. A tiger stalking and violently killing an antelope is not good or bad and the tiger takes no time to consider such concepts. In the special complexity of human brains our morals evolve along with us, over time and in context and concert with our technological and cultural advancement. Morals are emergent properties, not fundamental.

Dolphins are social and mourn their dead, octopus are highly intelligent yet solitary, some spiders kill and eat their mate after, or during 😐, copulation. The concepts within the brain that drive these actions are inherent to each species but not fundamental to all of nature. Likewise, our notions and concepts of morality also can't be mapped onto the Universe at large. For this reason I have a hard time speculating what another intelligent species will think of us or anything else for that matter. Evolution of biology and consciousness, and how concepts and sociology emerge and evolve further from them, is *far* more complex and chaotic a system than I think our intuitions are primed to grasp.

Also thank you for the book recommendation. I haven't read it but am always grateful to be given new books by interesting people. I'll absolutely sit down with it.. You're welcome!

&#x200B;

In the book of Vulpiani they say that the periodic perturbation (which causes the periodic change in the orbital parameters of the Earth) has a period of 10\^5 years but isn't strong enough to justify alone the transition from the cold climate to the hot one (so the peak); if you add the noise (so the things that happen during months or years) you have transition with the same periodicity.

&#x200B;

I don't personally study climate and what I am about to say is just my opinion (which isn't that of an expert): the noise models what happens during months or years (so also what we as humans can change); the article shows a plausible model (which has probably been refined during the years) in which actions that happen during "human-like times" can have an impact on climate (which is not trivial at all). But again, these last few lines are just my opinion and I am not an expert on the subject.. [removed]. That approach demonstrably enhances survivability.. Yea definitely! Yet, there’s a not-insignificant number of people that think they are *physically* incapable of doing math or physics. The typical “oh I’m just not a math person, I’m left-brained”. No, you *can* learn it! And in my opinion, it is totally intuitive with the right perspective and teacher.. I just think it’s wrong to say that radiative-convective equilibrium has “exactly nothing to do with climate change per se” when it’s the simplest model that can give somewhat realistic amounts of surface warming in response to CO2, and that was in fact the first application of a simple radiative-convective model.. [deleted]. [removed]. [deleted]. Morals are indeed emergent properties, but that doesn't make them any less real; as Anderson scolded us, more is different after all :) Carroll talks a lot about that in *The Big Picture* too (the only book better than *Animal Liberation* that I've read in the last 5 years). In that vein, the last thing I'd like to say on this note is that I'm not sure I share your tacit suggestion that, because we evolved a certain way, we are destined to (or justified in) following those evolutionary instincts. Indeed, I would say that our emergent and considerable cognition (which many people fallaciously believe justifies our treatment of animals) is precisely what gives us the ability to reflect on what's right; in the language used by Dawkins in *The Selfish Gene*, we, the vehicles, have the ability to go against the directives of our replicators, DNA.

I'd also like to echo your sentiment: this has been a delightful conversation, so thank you for that!. I don't study climate either but I agree with what you say, and from what I gather if Hasselman explains how fast random fluctuations can affect the climate on the long run then the work of Parisi et al on stochastic resonance tries to take this at least in spirit to next level from [climatology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climatology) to [paleoclimatology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paleoclimatology) and tackle what it seems to be an established issue the [10,000 year problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/100,000-year_problem). [removed]. I think the squirrel-killing part does turn some folks off.
    
Yep. Math’s just another language to name stuff- naming and sorting seems to be the key to human apexity.. I probably should dust off my old bike and switch majors to Physics then!. [removed]. As an example, researchers last summer updated the DICE climate inputs and damage function while using Nordhaus's discount rate (and also lower values) finding a SCC of 80 $/ton which is double that of Nordhaus's 2017 PNAS update.  Changing the discount rate for 4.25% to ~2% raised the value further to 200 $/ton.  

https://www.nature.com/articles/s41558-020-0833-x. I absolutely agree being emergent doesn’t make our morals any less real. And that if anything, our ability to cognitively choose them makes them even more so. Anderson, Carroll and Dawkins in one comment! I’d imagine we are in roughly 99% agreement on things haha. [removed]. [removed]. >I’d imagine we are in roughly 99% agreement on things haha

I totally believe it, and I hope one day that it is 100% :). [removed]. [removed]. Eat a steak and it will be! ;). [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed] The Origin of The Elements. nan. So...what's the brown?. By what mechanism do dying low-mass stars create heavy elements? I've no knowledge of the processes involved in star death so I don't understand how they could be created.. Ah very cool. My first grad project was on big bang nucleosynthesis, so this brings me back. Thanks for sharing!. What's the deal with Cosmic Ray Fission? Why does it produce LI, Be, and B, but not He or C (or heavier elements)? why don't other processes create Be and B? . I really wish my chemistry class back in high school started with the origin of elements. It seems like such a big point (and potential inspiration) that is not even mentioned until I learnt about star stuff much later on!. I'd be interested to see one like this for Earth specifically, one that also includes radioactive decay as a source. Since most helium on Earth actually comes from the alpha particles of heavier elements decaying.. Does that mean the total amount of Hydrogen has peaked and will run out?. What is the source of this image? I do research in neutron stars and this would be a great image to show.. "Merging neutron stars"? What?. Being colorblind TIL all the naturally occuring elements in the universe were created by only three different processes.. So this is basically attributing all r-process element formation to merging neutron stars? That seems... ahead of where I though current consensus was on that.. I was taught that all elements present on Earth (apart from the ones humans synthetically created) were produced through fusion in a single supernova explosion. 

. So about 94% of gold was created by *colliding neutron stars*? That's awe-inspiring. I feel like I'm going to be thinking about that for a while.. source?. /r/colorblindgore. Neil Tyson is at best mildly annoying,but [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9D05ej8u-gU) is high god damn art.  
. If I had any merging neutron stars or any money, I'd give you gold for this.. Source?
. Dumb question, could new elements form or be discovered because of new events in the Universe that we haven't yet been aware of?. How do you fuse to hydrogen? It has one proton and no neutrons, so what are you fusing?. Can we get a source?. a lot of you guys are saying that the brown shaded elements on the table are created synthetically, but its always been my understanding that those too were created in one of those colored processes, its just that the half lives are such  that none remain naturally in this time as they have all decayed into other, more stable elements

I mean, a half life of a million years is meaningless in terms of the universe, all that was made in an exploding star would be gone in the blink of an eye even in planetary time scales. This raises more (probably ignorant) questions for me:

- does this chart represent the distribution of element origins in the universe or on earth?

- how in the world is hydrogen created via fusion?

- I thought stars like our sun burned because hydrogen --> helium --> release of energy. Wouldn't that show up in the He? Is it dying low-mass stars?

- Once neutron stars merge, how in the world would mass (like gold, for example) make it from there to (eventually) Earth?  

. We are all made of stars.. I never heard of white dwarves exploding. This makes me very optimistic about the possibility that the universe is teeming with life. If the majority of carbon (of which we are based) is formed from dying low-mass stars which make up a high percentage of stars in galaxies, a logical conclusion would be that the fundamental building blocks of life as we know it are in abundant supply throughout the universe. . Awesome table, but I think the green and yellow are the wrong way round . >Exploding white dwarfs. > Merging Neutron Stars

I'm trying to imagine how improbable this occurrence is. . So Hydrogen cant be made anymore?. Where is the decay of higher mass elements for lead?. Is this distribution throughout the universe, or as found in the Earth’s crust?. That's pretty neat!. Since densities and temperatures were higher in the earlier universe (maybe, not really up on inflation theories), how much of this "salting" occurred in the early universe.  Were the more interesting and varied nuclear reactions taking place in this epoch?  Are the stellar evolution processes that occurred after the first few billion years capable of providing the percentage of heavier elements observed?  Has this been studied?. With how vast space is, how does Earth have so many amazing elements when the closest star to us (the sun) hasn't yet exploded to form them?

I'm asking that wrong, and it sounds dumb. Obviously if the sun exploded it wouldn't matter if it through gold at us because we'd want to be far away by then. And now I'm rambling. 

So a ton of rare and random cosmic events happened in our corner of space all at the time our solar system was being created? . Videos in this thread:

[Watch Playlist &#9654;](http://subtletv.com/_r68tkxz?feature=playlist&nline=1)

VIDEO|COMMENT
-|-
[They're Made Out of Meat](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7tScAyNaRdQ)|[+28](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh1vpwy?context=10#dh1vpwy) - Just incase people don't get it...
[Neil deGrasse Tyson: don't trust the laws of science](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVSYA1RnSMQ)|[+7](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh19e5z?context=10#dh19e5z) - Ugh. I need something to cheer me up now.
[The Most Astounding Fact - Neil deGrasse Tyson](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9D05ej8u-gU)|[+4](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh187c6?context=10#dh187c6) - Neil Tyson is at best mildly annoying,but this is high god damn art.
[Carl Sagan - Pale Blue Dot](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p86BPM1GV8M)|[+2](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh230y7?context=10#dh230y7) - Exactly what I thought:
[Das Racist - Who's That? Brooown! produced by Saba  [OFFICIAL MUSIC VIDEO]](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rP322FWfJWQ)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh2icbg?context=10#dh2icbg) - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rP322FWfJWQ
[Carl Sagan - Cosmos- Stars - We Are Their Children](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tLPkpBN6bEI)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh24wy1?context=10#dh24wy1) - I was thinking more of this.
[How Neil DeGrasse Tyson Would Save The World  10 Questions  TIME](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wiOwqDmacJo&t=132s)|[+1](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/68tkxz/_/dh1xiti?context=10#dh1xiti) - Here is the original, without the music (and with his answers to more questions, if you want them):
I'm a bot working hard to help Redditors find related videos to watch. I'll keep this updated as long as I can.
***
[Play All](http://subtletv.com/_r68tkxz?feature=playlist&ftrlnk=1) | [Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubtleTV/wiki/mentioned_videos) | Get me on [Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/mentioned-videos-for-redd/fiimkmdalmgffhibfdjnhljpnigcmohf) / [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/mentioned-videos-for-reddit). As always, the periodic table appears to have a pattern that's just distorted enough not to fit 100%.. Someone should make a new table organized by color, just for fun . That's awesome . Heavy elements are made from the s-process and r-process. Neutron star merger may be an r-process site, but it's not the entirety of heavy element synthesis.. I love how we use helium.
The universe: **WITH THE BEGINNING OF THE EVERYTHING THAT IS I PRESENT YOU THE SECOND ELEMENT THAT WILL BUILD UP THIS UNIVERSE**
humans: lol let's blow up latex bags with it. Um... . What about god created them?. What about God. Its possible that most of the higher elements can only be formed by either the S or R proceseses, or synthetically.. My guess would be synthetically made, but not completely certain. Technetium is definitely synthetically made though.

Edit: upon brief researching on Wikipedia, a commonality shared by many of those brown/grey elements seem to be they're produced primarily via radioactive decay of some other element(s), which of course is generally how they'd be synthesized too.. Radon is not synthetic... but it is a radioactive decay product.. They'll be elements who's isotopes are too radioactive (decay too fast) to be found in nature from these events on Earth. . All the brown shows that physics is a pathway to many elements some consider to be unnatural.. What brown? I see gray, perhaps one of us is colorblind.. 
. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rP322FWfJWQ. Brown is poop. Smashing shit together. Never been found to exist under natural circumstances.  The only way we've encountered any of those elements is by making them/observing them being made in a lab.

Which isn't to say they *can't* exist under natural circumstances, it's just that they decay into other elements so fast that the likelihood of you ever encountering it in the wild is near zero.. I only had several astro undergrad and grad lectures so it's all a bit blurry, but the table of elements is a bit wonky as it hardly tells the whole story. 

So the low-mass stars (anything up to ~3 solar masses) burn hydrogen to helium. Helium is heavier and settles in the core that does not burn as it can't. Not enough density, pressure and heat. Eventually there's enough helium in the middle that the core is very very dense. It's basically all degenerate gas state. A limit is crossed and that inner He core ignites. Outer H, that used to be the core, is still doing its thing and continues burning in a shell around the inner He, feeding the now new He core of the star. The energy related with this event, called Helium flash, is huge. Try and find a quote, it's ridiculous. You do not really see any drastic change on the surface of the star as most of the energy is spend on de-degenerating the He core. 

I know you didn't ask about low mass elements but basically this same process can and does not have to repeat for carbon as well. What exactly happens to the star post red-giant phase depends on the exact mass it started with and the mass it lost during its expansion. If the star is near the limit I believe that the same can happen for C to O core, sort of a "carbon flash". If you're familiar with the [HR diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hertzsprung%E2%80%93Russell_diagram) you can track the stellar evolution: they climbed up the subgiants branch up to the red giants branch, then went back down and left over the horizontal branch and then back up via the asymptotic giant branch. This double shell nuclear process is not particularly stable and this marks the end for the low mass stars as the outer layers end up being blown away and form planetary nebulas. 

 Anyhow, back to the truly low mass. As someone pointed out CNO cycle is the main source of energy for stars over the 1.3-1.4 solar mass limit. But CNO does not in principle create C, N or O, not stable enough to last at least. You go in with a single stable C12 and you go out with a single stable C12. They're just catalysts for the H->He reaction.

The process that produces the C12 that goes into CNO (if it wasn't there at the formation of the star) is the triple-alpha process. Basically He goes to Beryllium, which if lucky can hit an He to form C. Sometimes C and He can collide to make O this way as well, however unlikely. 

The very heavy elements like Strontium, Ytrium, Zirconium and that entire group in the 4th and 5th row can have a bit more esoteric origins such as in novae events or just because of the ridiculous long life-spans of low-mass stars statistics tend to wage war on improbability over time. Thus some processes that have low probabilities of occurring in those settings do occur (rarely) and accumulate. The original [author(s)](http://www.cosmic-origins.org/) of these graphs cite [Anders&Grevesse](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1989GeCoA..53..197A) as the source of the data they used. Table 3 of that article lists the abundance of nuclides and the most likely process through which they were created.* That table states that the  most likely nuclear reaction that creates the elements you asked about is the [s-process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-process). 

In principle s-process is just neutron addition process. You add a neutron all the way up till you reach an unstable element that decays into a new one. So from Fe you go all the way up to Pb where the process terminates according to wiki: "209Bi captures a neutron, producing 210Bi, which decays to 210Po by β− decay. 210Po in turn decays to 206Pb". These images pretty much show the process: [all the way to Y](http://exp-astro.physik.uni-frankfurt.de/nautilus/NucleosynthesisRedGiant_Path.jpg), [only a couple of steps but with half-lives and branching shown](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Anton_Wallner/publication/280062175/figure/fig1/AS:304433075376172@1449593909506/Figure-1The-s-process-reaction-path-between-Fe-and-Ni-The-isotope-Fe60-is-produced-via-a.png).

The question is now how Fe got there. In principle all fusions up to Fe produce energy so up to certain percentage the [alpha chain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alpha_process) will happen. Additionally, there is no "pure" H/He star. Each star has certain "percentage" of other elements. This is called metalicity. Even if the star's metalicity is low, we are talking about masses in neighborhoods of ~10^30kg which still leaves a lot of "kg" of various other elements to burn. 

The more interesting way is over novae events. Basically you have one big star nearby that is able to continue through Carbon, Neon, Oxygen to Silicon burning. The smaller metal rich white dwarf sucks the hydrogen and helium rich envelope of the bigger star until a runoff thermonuclear reaction starts on the surface of the white dwarf at which point any number of processes can occur to synthesize heavier than Fe elements. 



\* To be exact they say that: "The assignements to nucleosynthetic processes are from Cameron (1982), Schramm (1982, priv. communication), Walter et. al. (1986), Woosley and Hoffman (1986, 1989) and Beer and Penzhorn (1987).". Later on in the text they also say: "Figure 7 shows a \sigmaN plot, based on the abundances from Table 3 (BEER, 1988, priv. commun.). ".. Nuclear astrophysicist here.  It's called the ["slow neutron capture process"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-process).  

There are a couple fusion reactions that occur in red giants which happen to emit neutrons.  Those neutrons can then be captured by any nucleus, making it larger.  Usually that makes the nucleus radioactive, and it can beta decay to make the next element up.  Rinse and repeat every few thousand years, and eventually you build up heavy elements.

As the red giant gets old it can throw off lots of its material in [planetary nebulae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planetary_nebula), populating the galaxy with everything made.. I think it's relatively low mass stars. The CNO cycle is present in stars with >1.3 M_sun. Compared to some stats out there, they could be considered low mass.  . Fuel runs out. Star looses temperature. That makes the atoms come closer together. Some merge.

A few of those reactions provide energy, making the process stable. Others eat energy. Under certain circumstances, a threshold can be reached where suddenly everything eats energy, the star first implodes, then the rest explodes. Makes you not want to be too close.

When it explodes, some atoms may also be squeezed together for more heavy matter. After which the unstable heavy matter decays into more stable atoms.. I would guess it has to do with chemical abundances of the star at the time of "death". The CNO cycle occurs in stars with M>1.5Msolar. There's also various stages of shell burning and probably some synthesized during death, but I don't remember all their products. And do they spit them out into space, or do they just hang out forever in the star's core, if it doesn't go supernova?. I also came here to ask this.. [deleted]. Weren't H and He created during recombination? What the difference between recombination and nucleosynthesis? . It produces many elements, but a few produced helium atoms don't matter compared to the overwhelming amount of helium from the big bang. Similar for the other elements. Beryllium and boron don't have a relevant other source producing them, so you see the relatively small amount produced by cosmic rays here.. You can see the [abundances of the elements here](https://i.stack.imgur.com/YGBuk.png).  What you notice is the unusually low abundance of Li, Be and B relative to the elements around them.  I'm sure the cosmic ray fission (also called [cosmic ray spallation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmic_ray_spallation)) does produce some other elements, but you are talking about a small amount on a very large background from other sources.

Be-8 (which could be made from two He-4) and Li-5 (which could be made from a proton and a He-4) are extremely unstable with half-lives less than 1 femtosecond.  There are some isotopes which could be produced from deuterium or He-3, but they have low abundances already.  Also any Li, Be or B in a star quickly react to form heavier elements.  The first reaction beyond the production of Helium is the [triple alpha process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple-alpha_process) which produces carbon.
. Probably difficult to get good sources on the approximate amounts since we can only theorize the Earth's composition based on asteroids in the solar system and some finite data from our crust.

edit: I suppose the sun gives us a great indication based on its spectroscopy. . It peaked after the Big Bang, so the answer is yes.  But it's still the most abundant element in the universe by far, so I wouldn't worry about it running out for a long, long time.  Long after our solar system is gone.. The source appears to be this image created for Wikimedia Commons: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Nucleosynthesis_periodic_table.svg

That is in turn based on a graphic produced by Jennifer Johnson at Ohio State University: http://www.astronomy.ohio-state.edu/~jaj/nucleo/. [More on this.](https://astronomynow.com/2015/12/09/gamma-ray-burst-seeded-solar-nebula-with-heavy-elements/). Amen. 
. As you can see, it's a bit more complicated. Not from a single explosion, but from several, mixed together over the aeons. And not just from supernovae, but also from several other processes.. I would be interested in this as well.  As an astronomy graduate student (who admittedly has not yet had a class on stars), I have never heard of low mass stars producing any elements heavier than Oxygen in significant quantities.... Ugh. I need something to [cheer me up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVSYA1RnSMQ) now.. Jacked from Sagan . That was very profound and thought provoking until they ruined it by playing that crappy music for the last minute.. Here is the original, without the music (and with his answers to more questions, if you want them): https://youtu.be/wiOwqDmacJo?t=2m12s. This periodic table includes naturally occurring elements. Many other heavier elements have been created by artificial means, but these atoms tend to be very unstable. .  Sort of related I get a kick out of the fact that all naturally occurring elements exist in nature (hence the "naturally occurring" meaning) considering the complexity and energy needed for some to be created. It's not like there is a big hole from titanium to zinc which you'd think really wouldn't be hard to imagine.. Not a dumb question, currently the periodic table goes up to element 118 Oganesson and like any of the elements on the table above uranium this only exists as a man made element. The problem with the heavier elements is that they have too short a half life for us to see them from the usual natural processes. Most of the elements in our solar system are from stars that died billions of years ago, so an element like Americium that has a half life under 10000 years will not be around any more. 

Elements like 118 have half lives measured in milliseconds, so if any is getting created by natural processes it won't exist long enough for us to see it. So if there is a natural process creating say element 119 it would be very hard for us to ever see that.

A possible exception could be if something created an element in the [island of stability] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island_of_stability)

edit: but we're not even sure the island of stability exists.... >It has one proton and no neutrons

Hydrogen has seven known isotopes. Of those seven, three are bound. Of those three, two are stable.

That being said, I'm not sure what exactly they're referring to when they say "Big Bang fusion" of hydrogen.. I don't think 'big bang fusion' is the officially accepted term. In fact hydrogen and helium seem to have been created in different stages of the early universe.. The other guy replying to you seems eager to show off what he learned in class, but your question was not answered. I believe "Big bang fusion" is not referring to nuclear fusion but the collision of free protons and electrons, which were themselves created dispersed uniformly throughout the universe when the big bang had cooled enough for subatomic particles to stabilize. I guess you could call that fusion of subatomic particles, not atoms.. I used [google image search](https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/1325808?hl=en) and it gave this link:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nucleosynthesis. You're partly correct. Most of the purely synthetic elements are not even on this table (elements 95-118). Many of the brown elements however do exist in noticeable quantities, but I think only from the decay of other elements. (Radon for example). The article linked above suggests that this is for our solar nebula.


Hydrogen formed from free ejections and protons, which formed from some high energy state in the early universe.


The is a portion of green (for low ms Star fusion) in the helium. Most helium was created during the big bang/early universe.


The neutron stars merge and release vast quantities of matter which seed solar nebula before the star systems form.. Type 1a supernovae if I'm not mistaken. Astrophysicists here can provide a more detailed explanation.. Yeah how is it a white dwarf explodes? My understanding is they just continue to radiate heat for billions if years until eventually becoming black dwarfs. . It's not necessarily that Hydrogen *can't* be made, it's just a very energy-expensive process.  Hydrogen produces a lot of energy when it is fused in stars and you have to put all that energy back in if you want to split the Helium (or other elements) back down into Hydrogen.  It's not a naturally occurring process.. Just knock protons off of nuclei, like unstable helium isotopes perhaps.  There's an abundance of hydrogen in the universe so there's no need to worry.. This too has been nagging at me a bit for a few years, in the back of my mind - might have so many hydrogen particles in such a small area early in the universe have slammed into each other and created "spontaneous supernovae" (to coin a term)?. The sun was formed from an anomalously dense region of star-stuff soup, made of 9 billion years worth of old star carcases, gas, ice and dust. The planets and other SS bodies were formed from the leftovers which managed to stay out of the sun, but also avoid being blasted away from it.

I think you are likely forgetting that the sun is only about a third as old as the universe, and there were many, many stars which came and went before it. (Not all stars are nearly as long lived as ours will be, and the early universe was much more chaotic to boot.)

To your point about vastness, you should be much more impressed that there was enough density of stuff in general to make up the sun and gas giants (not to mention all the stuff ejected in the process). Everything else in the solar system together, (rocky planets, moons, asteroids, comets, dust, your great-aunt Tilly) make up less than 0.002% of the system's mass.. You're saying this on a physics sub?. Made by flesh bags on rocky planets. . The superheavies (not listed here) are not from decay/fission. Po is also naturally occuring. The brown probably just means unstable, and thus the origin is fission, fusion, or some other decay mode. Just guessing here of course.  . Yeah, Protactinium is in the [decay chain of Uranium.](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Decay_chain%284n%2B2%2C_Uranium_series%29.svg/490px-Decay_chain%284n%2B2%2C_Uranium_series%29.svg.png) . Awesome, thanks for the answer!. Then why are the heavier synthetic elements omitted?. Tc is naturally occurring. Decay and isotope production are not the same at all. . Yes, and radon-222 in the air contributes a large fraction of your background radiation dose equivalent.. Many of those are found in nature (e.g. radon, francium), but only as intermediate parts of decay chains.. That's not true. /u/Smithium is correct.. Thanks for the answer!. Did you ever hear the tale of Doctor Seaborg the Wise? No, its not a tale the theoreticians would tell you. They say he was so clever, he synthesized ten transuranium elements from lower forms.. The dark side of the Force is a pathway to *many* abilities some consider to be unnatural.. It looks kind of greenish to me like dark olive or something.  I don't think it's my eyes though, monitors have so much variation in color from screen to screen that you can't trust them.. > I see gray, perhaps one of us is colorblind.. 

Yeah, the entire chart is grey. /u/leftofzen must be colour blind!. It's definitely a brown/green. Here are the [nearest named colours](http://www.resene.com.au/swatches/search.php?type=result&split=&close=10&chart=*&r=148&g=148&b=99) to this colour, which in RGB is [148, 148, 99].. Not sure why you were downvoted. I have male-pattern colorblindness too (red/green overlap) and this "brown" looks like a dark gray to me too, possibly edging very slightly into gold.  Anyway it is certainly a flaw in the diagram that one of the colors used was omitted from the key.. Awesome, thanks for the answer!. This is incorrect. Radon is a byproduct of radioactive decomposition of Uranium. It is found in higher concentrations near large deposits of igneous rock. 

Radon is the second leading cause of lung cancer.

This is why houses should get radon testing done.. Radon?. That's really interesting . So the white dwarf starts eating the other star until it gets too full to eat anymore? . Neat.
. Doesn't helium flash cause the hydrogen envelope to puff out?

Also is the CNO process something that happens in low metallicity stars, or does it require high metallicity as the carbon creation is so unlikely.  I wonder if early stars saw much CNO in the hydrogen shell at all.. [deleted]. Nucleosynthesis is when the nucleus itself is synthesized (created) via nuclear reactions. Recombination was when nuclei (mostly hydrogen-1) began to bind electrons, forming atoms.. Of course, just wanted to clarify that its not actively being made in any meaningful quantity. . Thank you for the source. The one Jennifer Johnson produces is very good and will make a nice addition to my slides. . Oh, that's interesting. I'm sure I've seen Jennifer Johnson's periodic table diagram before but didn't think much of it. So then is this the origin of elements in our solar system, as opposed to universe-wide?. Note that this is not firmly established yet.  Over the last couple decades the pendulum has been *very slowly* swinging from supernovae to merging neutron stars, but we're not sure yet.  There are also other possibilities such as quark novae.. Cool. So do we happen to live in a time when there are less neutron stars than in the past?

Seems to be a lot of heavy elements out there, and pretty well spread out. I'm not so sure that that is the consensus view.. Yea the table explains it pretty good. I should've known there was more to it. If there's anything my physics degree has taught me it's that nothing is a simple as it first appears. . Yeah, I'm undergrad, but I don't know of any processes that can produce elements beyond Oxygen in low mass stars (even very large stars can only produce up to Iron and Nickel until the others are formed in the supernova. Additionally, I have only found a few papers regarding neutron star collisions as a significant source of nucleosynthesis, rather than supernovae. Additionally, supernovae are thought to be responsible for the majority of heavy elements.

The fact that many heavy elements are stated to come from low mass stars, and most light elements are shown as coming from high mass stars exploding (presumably meaning supernovae explosions) makes me question this chart significantly.

I found this chart on Wikipedia, and it is sourced as original work by a user, which makes me immediately suspicious. [Here](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Nucleosynthesis_periodic_table.svg) is a link to it. 

Additionally, I found [this](http://aasnova.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/fig22.png) from the American Astronomical Society, which I feel is more trustworthy than a random Wikipedia user that provides no sources. This chart, while less detailed, is significantly closer to the current consensus.

The chart claims to use data from Jennifer Johnson, who I was able to find to be an astronomy professor at Ohio state, but I couldn't find any papers that I have access to that show this data (I searched through everything that being a student at UW Madison permits me to. I'm considering contacting her to ask her if this accurately represents her data since this seems very odd. All the stuff at all related to elemental abundance that I can find from her are related to abundances in the early universe and metal poor stars (which are the oldest ones). This chart seems to be talking about the modern universe. 

The person on reddit who I know might be able to weigh into this is /u/andromeda321, she seems likely to have access to materials that I don't or to already know about it. . Exactly what I thought:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p86BPM1GV8M. That was his mentor at one point . More like ruin it by playing music through the entire thing, I think it would have been better without the music at all.. . The island of stability only implies half-lives significantly longer than the elements around it. Those isotopes will still likely be too unstable to synthesize macroscopic quantities of them.. What are the "structure" (for lack of knowledge of a better term) of these different isotopes? I know of deuterium and tritium but I don't really know much about how they work. I thought regular hydrogen (like what's used in water) had one neutron, proton and electron.. You right... I've only taken general chem, what is a bound isotope? I had no idea there were more than 3 isotopes.. So if its all subatomic particles, and hydrogen is basically just a subatomic particle, the hydrogen generation is really just the proton picking up an electron?. >The other guy replying to you seems eager to show off what he learned in class, but your question was not answered. 

I don't know why you think that, but that's not correct at all.

>I believe "Big bang fusion" is not referring to nuclear fusion but the collision of free protons and electrons

Obviously not, nuclear fusion has nothing to do with electrons.. I wonder if someone made it for Wikipedia, or if they got it from somewhere else.. yeah, but what im saying is this-

if we can create "synthetic" elements through nuclear reactions on Earth, those elements were absolutely made in stars naturally. everything we can do here pales in comparison to the forces present out there in the universe. 

I think we are mostly saying the same thing, but I've read through the comments and it seems some people think we have created elements that have never been seen in nature before....here maybe, by humans, because they are so short lived...., but these things have certainly been created naturally by the various natural processes of element creation.. Very helpful answers, thanks!. That's correct. Type A supernovae. Also referred to as Standard Candle supernovae. This is the specific type used to discover that the universe expansion is accelerating. . I think "exploding white dwarves" means type 1a supernova, which occur when a white dwarf siphons gas from a binary companion until it reaches a limit of about 1.4 solar masses and goes supernova. . God created physics. They talk with their meat, you say?. That is pretty crazy to think about. Some elements were created by the very creation of the universe. Other elements are made through the actions and deaths of stars. Then there's the ones made by flesh bags like us. . Made as a byproduct of reactions between low (organic) elements concentrating other elements into radioactive piles.

Those organic reactions happening to be self-organizing, self-replicating and homeostatic, but that's beside the point.. Or by ugly bags of mostly water.. Radioactive decay needs no flesh bags.. Ugly, ugly bags of mostly water.. Briefly.

The brown elements are probably those where fission of heavier elements is the only remaining source for them.. What do you mean by that? Decay of some parent nucleus *produces* the daughter nucleus.. Sorry I should have been clearer, I wasn't saying they wouldn't be found on earth just that they wouldn't be found on earth from the cosmological events listed on the photo.. Its called olive drab or O.D. Green. . I see all the other colors just fine, the only one not mentioned in the key is the 'gray' one, which I presume is the one they perceive as being brown. Err...no, I'm not colourblind. It's definitely a brown/green. Here are the [nearest named colours](http://www.resene.com.au/swatches/search.php?type=result&split=&close=10&chart=*&r=148&g=148&b=99) to this colour, which in RGB is [148, 148, 99]. The fact that you see them as gray/grey means that *you* would be the one that is colourblind.. I love how stupid this sub makes me feel.. That's the basic gist. The white dwarf's gravity constantly catches the material in the outer atmosphere of the companion star. This is an ongoing process. At certain point the mass of the accumulated on the white dwarf crosses the critical limit and what's basically a runoff thermonuclear explosion happens. 

Novae aren't all that uncommon. Still the majority of heavy elements are created via s-process or r-process in supernovae. 

That's the sort of "iffy" part of the periodic system drawn up there.  In let's say a local globular cluster, or in a nebula it's not unimaginable that the majority of heavy elements present locally come from a nova or supernova and not an s-process. 

The above graph is valid for the cases for which the following paper is valid: http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1989GeCoA..53..197A. The paper is pretty extensive on the descriptions of sources they compiled the data from EXCEPT the table 3 which was used to make this periodic system of elements. For Table 3 that lists abundances and most likely nuclear process that creates them, they quoted private communication:
> Figure 7 shows a \sigmaN plot, based on the abundances from Table 3 (BEER, 1988, priv. commun.). 

Which doesn't make it wrong, of course, I'm just saying certain conditions apply. Such as if the table is based on locally measured data without enough attention directed towards correcting any potential nearby nova or supernova event etc. the values might be a off and the percentages (number of boxes colored in an element box) might be wrong. It would be neat to see someone from the field actually check how the numbers stand today. Since the 1980s we have had a lot of really great stuff going on in astronomy, including large collections of star spectra, i.e. SDSS, on which I assume those numbers are based off of. I could be really wrong though. Like I said, I'm not that well versed in nuclear physics.. As the H burns and He settles in the core it [He] gets compressed. The gravitational pressure at this moment is much much larger than the thermal pressure so the He core collapses all the way to degenerate gas state (Fermi gas). Now the gravitational pressure is equal to the degenerate state pressure.

Degenerate state means that the outside pressure is so high that the only thing preventing the core collapsing anymore is the Pauli exclusion principle. You literally can't compress it any further because that would mean you have to force two different electrons into a same state. I'm not familiar with your background so I don't know if this means something to you or not, if not think of it like you have a brick and you want to squeeze another brick into the first one so that both of them would be in the same place at the same time. It's similar to this concept except "same place" is described by 4 different quantum numbers: n, l, ml and ms.

This is a special kind of state, it doesn't behave a whole lot like "normal" gas, i.e. air. Once the temperature gets high enough for He burning to start the core doesn't expand immediately because the degeneracy pressure is still larger. Only once a decent proportion of the core ignites does the core start expanding. During this expansion a lot of energy of the He-flash is spent on reversing the degenerate gas state into a "normal gas" state, that is non-degenerate state. 

Because the major reason for the runaway burning of He was precisely the degenerate gas state (very dense, great heat conductivity etc...) once the thermal pressure becomes dominant and removes the degenerate gas state you don't have the conditions to keep up the high rates of He burning you had had, and the reaction stabilizes to more normal He burning rates. At this point, yes, the core expands but this isn't a nova or supernova explosion you were expecting.

So while the core expands majority of the produced energy is spend on removing the degenerate state into a non-degenerate state and the end product is considered not to be visible on the surface of a star. In the following million/billion years or so the star would grow to a red giant because its atmosphere would be puffed out by H shell burning closer and closer to the surface as well as the He core burning at the same time. 

As far as CNO goes: high metalicity ~solar mass stars probably function best, low metalicity stars have CNO of course it's just that it's not their main source of energy. Zero metalicity stars have no CNO cycle. Those are very early stars when the universe was young called Population 3 stars. . In principle they have funky evolution paths because of the lack of heavy elements so late stage lives that we see now were not available to them. They were also gigantic and fast rotators. They synthesized the heavier elements and depending on how well they did that or didn't they could have destroyed themselves completely (blown apart), partially or could have just left big iron cores around.. grad school. If I dont see this comment on /r/iamverysmart, I will be very disappointed.. Correct. In the timeline of events, BBN happened first, when the temperature was 10^7 Kelvin. This corresponded to only a few minutes after the big bang, and ended very abruptly around 15 minutes after. Recombination happened when the mean temperature of the universe dropped below the ionization energy of hydrogen, which is at 13.6 eV (159000 K). This corresponds to ~370000 years after the big bang.. Insufficient data for meaningful response.. so, if all hydrogen will *eventually* be converted into other elements, and all other elements will also turn into other elements, what's the final element in this solitaire of entropy ?. Neutron stars continue to be produced today, and mergers are quite rare.. I think the idea is that we have an overabundance of certain elements in the SS as compared to the average elsewhere in the galaxy. I suspect any star systems that form nearby to neutron star mergers will experience a similar enrichment.. ~~less~~ fewer. I was thinking more of this. 

https://youtu.be/tLPkpBN6bEI. He invited him to visit Cornell and gave him a tour, but Sagan was not his mentor. Tyson ended up going to Harvard. . "Normal" Hydrogen (Protium) is just a proton with an electron.

Deuterium is the same, but with a neutron added in. (≈0.0156% of natural hydrogen)

Tritium has two neutrons (still 1 P and 1 e^- ), but is unstable and incredibly rare in nature. It has a half-life just over 12 years.. All of the others above tritium are unbound. For a very simple picture, you can imagine filling the [shell model single particle orbitals](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/Nuclear/shell.html) with nucleons to determine the structure of the ground state of each of these nuclei. Of course these unbound hydrogen isotopes are very far from stability, where the shell model works the best.. >what is a bound isotope?

"Bound" in this context means that it cannot decay by direct nucleon emission. An "unbound" nucleus has a negative separation energy for protons or neutrons. That means that the energy it would take to remove the outermost nucleon is negative, so it can just come off spontaneously. 

The hydrogen isotopes hydrogen-4, hydrogen-5, hydrogen-6, and hydrogen-7 are all unbound. So they decay extremely quickly by emitting one or more neutrons.

Hydrogen-1, hydrogen-2, and hydrogen-3 cannot do this. Although hydrogen-3 is still unstable to beta decay.. Yeah, it's pretty much that simple. The neutron, proton, and electron are the three subatomic particles and they're just all floating around and physics says they should form atoms if they happen to run into each other (just like how it says a magnet should stick when it gets close enough), so they do mostly just that at first. Then those various forms of H start interacting.

And the reason the subatomic particles are all distributed around evenly is because the big bang is like a big hot gas of energy, there's so much energy that nothing condenses, until it expands and cools off enough to condense everywhere somewhat simultaneously.. >the hydrogen generation is really just the proton picking up an electron?

That would not have happened until significantly after the Big Bang. And also the process of nuclei grabbing onto electrons has absolutely nothing to do with nuclear fusion reactions.. >Obviously not, nuclear fusion has nothing to do with electrons.

Oh, OBVIOUSLY? Then explain how hydrogen was formed in the universe via nuclear fusion. I'll get my popcorn.. Wikipedia provides info for all images (just click on the image)

> Periodic table showing origin of elements in the Solar System, based on data by Jennifer Johnson at Ohio State University. You expect me to believe in thinking meat? . Given enough time, hydrogen Atoms will go through puberty . >That is pretty crazy to think about. Some elements were created by the very creation of the universe. Other elements are made through the actions and deaths of stars. Then there's the ones made by flesh bags like us.  

I mean, all of those are the same, just some are more direct. . We are essentially a completely unique kind of phenomenon, our own force of nature perhaps, within the universe, to be incredibly particular! It's kinda fucking empowering too looking at it this way lol.. Always upvote Star Trek 🌟. No. Fission doesn't yield heavy elements like the majority of the brown colored elements. . Decay is not "generally how they'd be synthesized" is what I mean by that. Isotope production is primarily from beam lines and neutron irradiation in reactors.

If decay was how synthetic isotopes were produced, they would be naturally occurring and not synthetic.. Gray is "Exploding White Dwarfs"

Brown is not in the key and has elements such as "Fr" and "Ra" and "Ac". So it would be the runaway sensitivity of the hydrogen shell fusion, through CNO cycles sensitivity that causes the envelope to puff out into a giant. But I don't think it is due to the fusion occurring closer to the surface. I think the radius is regulated by shell fusion temperatures which is regulated by core fusion temperatures. The envelope by definition doesnt fuse and the fusion shell of hydrogen should remain about a core radius while the star puff out.

 Is there a reason other metals of higher density than He don't also sink to the core? 



. So then isn't it more accurate to say that hydrogen was created at recombination? Doesn't the definition of "Hydrogen" imply a neutral atom consisting of one proton and one electron? 

If you say "Hydrogen" was created at BBN, then aren't you calling a proton itself "Hydrogen"?. /r/TOTALLYNOTROBOTS. Iron is the final element.  It requires more energy to fuse Fe than you get out.  So when stars get to this point, they explode, creating higher elements. When the lighter elements run out, we will no longer have stars.  The universe will be littered with cold dead stars and black holes.  

The black holes will all eventually evaporate.  If we discover proton decay, eventually the stars and planets will disappear as well and the universe will be nothing but scattered photons.. My guess is iron, but yeah I like the question. . Thanks!

Still curious about how you fuse into 1 proton 1 electron though.... >Oh, OBVIOUSLY?

Yes, very obviously.

>Then explain how hydrogen was formed in the universe via nuclear fusion. I'll get my popcorn.

You were quick to criticize my comments, so you must have read them, but apparently you didn't understand them at all. Can't say I'm surprised, given how incorrect some of your comments were, and your shitty attitude.

Hydrogen has multiple isotopes. Obviously you cannot form a proton or neutron by fusing two nuclei together, those would've formed via hadronization after the universe had cooled and undergone the phase transition from quark-gluon plasma to confined hadrons.

Then you can fuse nucleons together to form heavier isotopes of hydrogen (among other things). For example two protons can fuse together into a diproton, and some fraction of the time the diproton will beta decay into a deuteron (hydrogen-2). Then deuterons can fuse (or you might call it capture) with a neutron to form a triton (hydrogen-3).

How's that popcorn?. Just incase people don't get it... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7tScAyNaRdQ. Ahh, some unexpected metaphysics. Nice.. http://i.imgur.com/9WljqGJ.gifv. You're telling me uranium doesn't decay into radium?. Exploding white dwarfs is light gray; the elements you listed are dark gray, not brown.

Oh god. This is going to be the dress controversy all over again, isn't it?. "Exploding white dwarfs" is a very light gray, dark gray (or your brown) is not in the key. "Closeness to the surface" was just used as a handwavy explanation, it's hard to discuss things on reddit as you don't know who you're talking to so you have to simplify and that takes away from the truthfulness. 

In essence you're correct with a minor addendum that it's not always a clear-cut case as to which cycle is the responsible one. For a sun-like star I'd agree that probably the CNO temperature sensitivity and burning rates are what determines the size of the intermediate radiative zone. For a metal-poor star however, things could be different.

Everything heavy is at the core. It is possible there's not a whole lot of mixing going on, but even in "worst case" scenario nuclear fusion will make sure all the heavy stuff is there. I'm not sure why heavy metals wouldn't be present in the core? If I implied/said it somewhere it's probably a mistake. . That's a subtle point, and it actually comes down to convention amongst different subfields. People that study BBN are cosmologists/nuclear physicists, and what they really care about is the formation of nuclei, not so much the neutral atoms themselves.

To your question though: neutral hydrogen formed at recombination. Individual protons formed at baryogenesis (when all neutrons+protons formed; which was even BEFORE BBN). Deuterium and tritium nuclei -- the two most common isotopes of hydrogen -- formed during BBN.

Fun fact about recombination (and also reionization) - different neutral elements recombined at slightly different times, because the mean temperature to ionize different nuclei are slightly different. This is generally more interesting at reionization, because it has implications with respect to star formation.. That's exactly right, astronomers usually refer to protons as hydrogen, specifically ionized hydrogen. Also, aside from helium, we tend to lump all the other elements under the label "metals." 

Apparently chemistry hasn't traditionally been a part of the curriculum. . **Here's a sneak peek of [/r/totallynotrobots](https://np.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots) using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots/top/?sort=top&t=all) of all time!**

\#1: [OH ELON](http://i.imgur.com/W4M0Ltg.jpg) | [310 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots/comments/68316o/oh_elon/)  
\#2: [WHEN SHE HAS FINISHED PERFORMING THE PLEASURE FUNCTION BUT CONTINUES TO LOOP](https://gfycat.com/ElectricFavoriteCrow) | [208 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots/comments/67wml5/when_she_has_finished_performing_the_pleasure/)  
\#3: [AS A HUMAN, THIS SHAKESPEARE QUOTE RESONATES WITH ME](https://i.reddituploads.com/d1be85e69c0246bfad65e8656cd12085?fit=max&h=1536&w=1536&s=6b4d23bcf34582e2d0ba1a3625d0a821) | [174 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots/comments/5lryix/as_a_human_this_shakespeare_quote_resonates_with/)

----
^^I'm ^^not ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| [^^Contact ^^me](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| [^^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| [^^Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/5lveo6/blacklist/). There's no need for any electrons. In principle you can fuse a proton and a neutron to from hydrogen-2. You could debate over whether to call that "fusion" or "capture", but that's another story.. Looks a lot like you copied my explanation and made it less readable. WTG!

Maybe you should try helping people understand things rather than making yourself feel smart.. A worthy several minutes. "No brain, eh?". I'm telling you that radium is not a fission product of any known element. Read your comment again. Maybe you meant "decay of heavier elements" instead of "fission of heavier elements". . Definitely has a touch of green / brown. Dark gray is just light black, which this isn't. 

This is greenish brown, maybe dark khaki.

Source: Ph.D in colorz. [This is not gray](http://i.imgur.com/JSbvkk5.png). Is the majority (that we know of) not hydrogen-1? I guess I just assumed it was.. >Looks a lot like you copied my explanation and made it less readable.

You mean your "explanation" where you thought that nuclear fusion involved nuclei capturing electrons? Because that's completely wrong, and has absolutely nothing to do with what I just said.

>Maybe you should try helping people understand things rather than making yourself feel smart.

Maybe you should learn some physics before you attempt to criticize people who *actually* know what they're talking about. And lose the attitude, kid.. Ah, so fission doesn't cover al situations where the nucleus ends up losing a proton? Odd.. We'll call it the color Pluto.. It sure as hell isn't brown. Yes, the majority is definitely hydrogen-1. The unbound isotopes decay with lifetimes around 10^(-20) seconds or less. So they basically only exist when we produce them using accelerators.. >Maybe you should learn some physics before you attempt to criticize people who actually know what they're talking about. And lose the attitude, kid.

First, let's be clear on this. You are a petty, socially retarded person. You use reddit to make yourself feel smarter because around actual physicists you can't keep up. I have several degrees in the sciences, I just don't try to make people who don't have them feel stupid by fighting them on semantics. Take your own advice, child.

Second, the person who started this thread asked a question about how the "Big bang fusion" label on the chart of "Origin of the Elements" could really be talking about fusion for Hydrogen. I thought that this was a great question, because his suspicion that "fusion" was being used wrong here was correct! The answer you provided was informative (in a useless, rambling sort of way) but unrelated to answering the original question. My answer to him was informative and answered the original question, i.e. it was NOT "fusion" that formed the initial Hydrogen UNLESS you define "big bang fusion" to include protons picking up electrons.

It's entertaining that you misunderstood my explanation but it was perfectly clear to the original poster, the person who matters here. And your literal paraphrasing of my explanation (with added jargon for bonus obscurity!) served no purpose other than to confirm that even you know your original answer was off topic.

Why don't you try getting out of your dorm today? Go for a walk.. I don't know how this color is called, but maybe you should just stop calling it gray.. >First, let's be clear on this. You are a petty, socially retarded person. You use reddit to make yourself feel smarter because around actual physicists you can't keep up.

Arrogant one, aren't you?

>I have several degrees in the sciences

No, that's incorrect. Whatever field you think you understand, it certainly has absolutely nothing to do with nuclear reactions, nuclear astrophysics, or just physics in general.

>I just don't try to make people who don't have them feel stupid by fighting them on semantics.

I didn't *force* you to give completely wrong answers to physics questions in /r/Physics. I also didn't force you to incorrectly criticize a perfectly good answer, given by somebody who actually knows what they're talking about. Additionally I didn't force you to act like a petulant little shit.

You decided to do these things all on your own.

>The answer you provided was informative (in a useless, rambling sort of way) but unrelated to answering the original question.

No, you've simply failed to understand the connection between what I said and the original question.

Saying that "hydrogen" is created via fusion is ambiguous, because hydrogen has multiple isotopes. While saying that protons are created via fusion doesn't really make sense, saying that, for example, hydrogen-2 was created via fusion is much more reasonable.

The person who asked the question seemed to be assuming that all "hydrogen" nuclei are simply protons. But in fact, there are seven different kinds of hydrogen nuclei, all with different numbers of neutrons.

>My answer to him was informative and answered the original question

Your answer is completely wrong. Let's pick it apart.

>i.e. it was NOT "fusion" that formed the initial Hydrogen UNLESS you define "big bang fusion" to include protons picking up electrons.

The point of *my* answer (the one you conveniently didn't understand) was that you **can** in fact form hydrogen via fusion, because there are multiple isotopes of hydrogen. While you cannot form a proton with nuclear fusion, you can form any of the heavier hydrogen isotopes.

And as for the second part, "fusion" is a nuclear reaction; it has absolutely nothing to do with the atomic electrons.

So just to sum things up for you, since you probably still don't understand what's happening here: you're completely wrong, you're a rude little shit, and you probably shouldn't be trying to teach people physics.. It's puke green. Definitely puke green.. >Saying that "hydrogen" is created via fusion is ambiguous

So instead of assuming he's not ignorant but simply referring to the completely standard meaning of the word, you assumed he needed a lesson in isotopes unrelated to his question.

That's a cool story about how you didn't answer his question.

>Your answer is completely wrong. Let's pick it apart.

I think you need a dictionary. Not only did you not pick my entire answer apart, your argument for the one part you picked at is garbage.

Look, I've been there. You're an egotistical grad student who knows everything. But you deserved to get knocked down a peg here, I'm glad to be there for you. Keep studying, but try to get out of your room once in a while and talk to other people or you're going to get worse at this.. >So instead of assuming he's not ignorant but simply referring to the completely standard meaning of the word, you assumed he needed a lesson in isotopes unrelated to his question.

So you think that "the standard meaning" of "hydrogen" is just hydrogen-1? That's not correct.

And I don't know why you think what I said was "unrelated to the question", because I literally just explained to you why it is completely relevant to the question.

The rest of your comment doesn't merit a response.

You don't know what you're talking about, and you don't understand how adult humans communicate with each other. You should fix those things before you attempt to answer anymore questions.

Until then, take your mental deficiencies elsewhere. The best thing you can do to fight COVID-19 is nothing. Stop writing that paper. Don't put it on the arxiv.. In recent days we've seen an influx in papers on the [arxiv modeling the spread of COVID-19.](https://arxiv.org/search/advanced?advanced=&terms-0-operator=AND&terms-0-term=COVID-19&terms-0-field=title&terms-1-operator=OR&terms-1-term=SARS-CoV-2&terms-1-field=abstract&terms-3-operator=OR&terms-3-term=COVID-19&terms-3-field=abstract&terms-4-operator=OR&terms-4-term=SARS-CoV-2&terms-4-field=title&terms-5-operator=OR&terms-5-term=coronavirus&terms-5-field=title&terms-6-operator=OR&terms-6-term=coronavirus&terms-6-field=abstract&classification-physics_archives=all&classification-include_cross_list=include&date-filter_by=all_dates&date-year=&date-from_date=&date-to_date=&date-date_type=submitted_date&abstracts=show&size=200&order=-announced_date_first&source=home-covid-19) Many of these are relatively simple papers clearly written by physicists using simple SIR models, some basic curve fitting, and even Ising models to model the spread of COVID-19. 

I'm writing to ask you, from the bottom of my heart, to **cut that shit out.**

This is not an unexplained X-ray line from the galactic center. This is not the 750 GeV diphoton excess. This is not something where the first paper to correctly guess the peak number of COVID-19 cases on the arxiv gets a Nobel prize. People's lives are at stake and you're not helping. 

At best, you make physicists look bad. Epidemiology, as a field, already exists. Any prediction from a physicist tinkering with equations pulled from Wikipedia is not going to be a better prediction than that of professional public health experts whose models are far more sophisticated and already validated.

At worst, people die. 

I'm serious. Let's imagine the outcome of one of these hobby papers. Suppose Dr. Jones from ABC University dusts off an SIR code he wrote for a class project in grad school, and using some numbers from the CDC finds that approximately 10% of the world catches the disease. The paper assumes a few percent die, which means millions dead. Dr. Jones puts it up on the arxiv. Tomorrow's headline? "Physicists calculate 3 million Americans dead of COVID by July, predicts 100 million cases!" What happens after that? People panic. And when people panic, they make bad decisions. Those bad decisions can kill people. 

Yes, I am literally suggesting that your paper on the arxiv might kill someone. This is already happening with the daily news cycle. Bad information gets disseminated, people get scared, and they react in the worst possible way. With your credentials you have the ability to create enormously powerful disinformation.

Don't believe me? Reporters watch the arxiv for things to report on. Those reporters are not scientists. All they know is that a scientist said something, so it's fair game to put in a headline. The public is even less scientifically literate than those reporters, and when a person with credentials says something scary a very large number of people take it at face value. To many people, 'Ising Model' only means 'algorithm equation calculus that says we're gonna die' because they are not physicists. You run the risk of becoming exactly the kind of disinformation and obfuscation that exacerbates the ongoing crisis. You become a punchline to a denier that says, "They can't decide if there's going to be hundred thousand cases or a hundred million cases! Scientists don't know anything!"

Consider the pros and cons. The pros? You aren't going to contribute to the understanding of the crisis with a first order model you cooked up in a few days. The benefit of one preprint to your tenure packet is minimal (and most universities are adjusting their tenure process so that this semester won't penalize you). The cons? I hope I've convinced you by now that there can be serious consequences. 

What's the alternative to this conversation we're having right now? In a year, we'll be talking about the time a pundit got on air, referenced a 'physicist's calculation that predicts 3 million dead by July,' and people panicked. We'll be talking about what we can do differently in the future. We'll be discussing requiring an ethics seminar for graduate students (like *every other field!*). We'll be talking about what sort of ethics surround putting out a preprint outside our immediate area of expertise during 
a major public health crisis. 

I'd like to live in a world where people are reasonable, and where it's safe to share ideas and calculations freely. I'd like to live in the world where the public will listen to us when we explain which numbers are fun afternoon projects from physicists and which are the current best projections by major public health organizations. We don't live in that world. Please, be pragmatic about this, and don't put that paper on the arxiv.. Initially I thought you were having a go at me for writing my shitty little paper about friction, lol. I agree with the point though.. Are you saying COVID-19 can’t be modeled as a harmonic oscillator?

But seriously, this is a great point. Models can be helpful, but only when designed by people who actually understand the subject of the model. Physicists are not public health professionals.. This is completely true, and in fact we've already had fallout from bad papers posted on medRxiv or bioRxiv. 

For example, back in January there was a paper posted on bioRxiv that claimed that non-Asians were immune. It used incredibly sketchy statistics and a sample size of _one_, and was refuted within hours by somebody with a sample 100 times larger. And yet people were using this as an excuse for complacency for months. Around the same time there was a paper that "proved" that SARS-CoV-2 was a modified HIV-based bioweapon, using statistical criteria so loose that they could have made the same claim for literally any virus. It was again refuted and retracted within hours, but today it's the foundation for conspiracy claims on talk radio shows. Because they can just say "scientists said X". 

This damage was done by researchers that were _adjacent_ to the relevant fields, i.e. they were biologists, just not the right kind of biologist. We're not even biologists, so imagine how much more wrong we would be. Even if you come up with something right, you'll just be duplicating what the real professionals have already figured out.. *stops writing shitty paper that is already way behind schedule*

The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.. I'll tell you, I did a little SIR modeling myself a couple weeks ago, looking at the impact that start date and duration of quarantine make on the outcome.  I thought it was really good stuff, and it gave intriguing and scary results, and so I did what any responsible scientist would do with it: nothing.

OK, I shared it with one close friend to chat about its weaknesses, and I'm mentioning it in vague terms here, but like the OP I realized that publicizing it -- even here on Reddit -- would inevitably do more harm than good.  I look forward to sharing it around and having some great conversations about it in, say, 2022.. I want to be clear, I'm not encouraging the arxiv moderators to intervene and make judgement calls about which papers modeling the spread are good or sophisticated enough to be reliable. I'm asking *you* to consider whether or not you're really qualified to be making claims about public health, and if you're not, whether it's appropriate to start *now*. 

Please, don't be selfish, a single preprint isn't worth that much to your career. Be better than those spring breakers crowding the beach. Have the maturity to consider how your behavior effects others before it causes an issue that requires intervention.. As an example of larger damage already done by this kind of thing, look at the crackpot Richard Epstein (https://www.newyorker.com/news/q-and-a/the-contrarian-coronavirus-theory-that-informed-the-trump-administration). Don't be that guy.. On the whole, we physicists need to tone our egos down. Thank you for writing this post.. >Ising models to model the spread of COVID-19

OK, that made me chuckle though.. [deleted]. While I appreciate the sentiment behind your post, I think you miss the core problem that seems to be afflicting most of the physicists I see disseminating modelling work - laziness. 

There is a serious lack of engagement with the existing *world-leading* research in the field of epidemiological modelling. I have seen non-specialists (here I mean those who do no modelling work) complaining that a model is not available when it's actually very well cited and published in Nature...

I wouldn't point to specific models as being the problem. Ironically I actually used a modified Ising model to create a toy transmission model (I'm a magnetic modelling specialist)  which showed a pretty clear hole in the government's strategy at the time - obviously though I didn't think it was therefore worth placing on arXiv. I've since done a dive into the literature around the Imperial model which caused the UK to shift direction and the model itself is not actually that complex - it is in effect a well-parameterised Monte-Carlo model.

The complexity comes from the parameterisation needed to get sensible *quantitative* results from the model. This is where the problem lies, too many people are doing work which arguably has some qualitative value but then reporting their work as quantitative results.  Truthfully I think it points to a much deeper issue with our field and how we interpret our results.

If people do want to use their knowledge of modelling to help at the present time then the two best options are to get involved with a call to action like RAMP (https://epcced.github.io/ramp/) where your expertise can be directed by someone with more experience in the field, or to take some time to go through the literature, interpret and disseminate it to others.

It isn't just our ability to perform research which is useful at this time, it's also our ability to understand and analyse the work of our colleagues. If people can get humble we might actually be able to contribute something of value.. Great write-up, thank you. **'Cobbler, stick to your trade'** also (and maybe especially) applies for physicists.. THANK YOU!!! 

Im a physics student and did a research project on epidemic models in my 3rd year. It was fairly basic but it was enough to understand how much bullshit is in some of the papers I’ve seen published on Covid from physicists. As smart as physicists are there are very particular techniques involved in modelling these issues which physicists are generally not trained in. Like you said, epidemiology exists. 

It makes the whole field look bad - u are smart people, don’t publish bad science to try and clamber ahead in your career. It will not work and probably reflect badly on you in the future.. I completely agree, I want to add as an addendum that I see no problem with doing this for your own curiosity. I have tinkered around with curve fitting and various modeling in my own time because, well I have had a lot of extra time suddenly and this is swirling in my head so much that I can't help but mess around and play with it. I think its a somewhat natural response as a student of physics. That being said, I don't post these, try to publish them, or pass them off as legitimate science. Hell even my family has asked me to cook up some models and predict the trajectory, and while I have been doing this I don't even share the results with them. I know at the end of the day they are meaningless, and really nothing more than a guess with fancy equations. I couldn't come to them with some numbers I cooked up knowing how imperfect the data I am using is, and how flawed my models likely are, forget about trying to publish them.. I'm not exactly sure what to feel regarding your post. On one hand, I understand your point, people should think twice before trying to discuss something they don't understand and indeed several of these hot takes might amount to bad science.

On the other hand, arxiv is a place of pre-prints and there's a lot to question about the journalistic quality of the people who report based on those, or even worst, do it based on name recognition. If there is any value on those articles, they will get published in good journals about the subject. It's not like that process suddenly stops, so asking for a halt on all those submissions, some of which (even if it's doubtful to believe) might be worth publishing, seems to go against the spirit of the scientific method.. Thank you for writing this. Please repost on the machine learning subreddit as well. This is getting ridiculous and needs to stop. This is not the time to write research papers about an ongoing pandemic. Your time is better served donating, volunteering from a distance, or staying at home. Same can be said about mathematicians as well.. I'm writing an astronomy paper from home, and thought why the fu*k is that bad?! Lol. I agree with you. Stop it people.. British newspapers have been all over [this guy](https://www.google.com/search?q=thomas+pike+imperial&tbm=nws) who put a [pre-print](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.25.20041475v1) claiming 5,700 deaths in the UK... based on the assumption that we would follow a similar trajectory to China, with no consideration of whether the Chinese statistics could be trusted.

He's a professor of microengineering, yet gets hailed as if he's an expert in epidemiology. Can I stop write my thesis and take a nap?. Engineers are performing the same dance with open-source ventilators. Luckily medical devices are heavily regulated, so all the shed-inventors (I believe the hip term is makers) will be knocked back. The psychology and community reaction to altruistic hubris is entertaining to watch though, every cloud.... As always, a relevant xkcd, but replace "obnoxious" with "dangerous" in this case: https://xkcd.com/793/. This post is so wrong on so many levels. I know I am the minority here but whatever, I'll try to be brief. It's wrong because it assumes that people who write papers don't know what they are doing. It assumes that journalists don't know what they are reading. it assumes that people who read the news don't understand anything. It is pure patronizing. There are some excellent contributions given by "modelers" who are helping epidemiologists. Those are mostly people coming from the hard sciences. Give people responsibility for what they do, for the choice they make. Get off the pedestal where you are shouting and try to help with your knowledge in a responsible way. People are less stupid than you think and if you think otherwise maybe it's time you become a little more modest.. I'm late to the game so this will probably get overlooked but I only partially agree with this.  It's true that physicists aren't epidemiologists or virologists.  And unless they are an MD/PhD they probably aren't medical doctors either.

I don't think many physicsts have the necessary training or experience to comment on papers like this https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0820-9.

But when it comes to modeling I think what you're suggesting is not entirely reasonable.

>In recent days we've seen an influx in papers on the arxiv modeling the spread of COVID-19. Many of these are relatively simple papers clearly written by physicists using simple SIR models, some basic curve fitting,

But a lot of papers that epidemiologists are putting out are doing the same thing.  I even saw one that just fit to some specially parameterized Gaussian and its results in the news.  And some epidemiologists are using SIR and SEIR models and are being taken seriously by policy makers.

>and even Ising models to model the spread of COVID-19. 

While strange it's just an academic exercise.  To be a reliable model more study would have to be done in collaboration with professional epidemiologists.

>I'm writing to ask you, from the bottom of my heart, to cut that shit out.

This is bad philosophy.  It's essentially an argument from authority, one of the worst fallacies you can commit in science.  I think policy makers know who's and epidemiologist and who's not.  No one is going to die from reading the arXiv and saying so is just hyperbole (something some of the epidemiologists are also engaging in).  If the models physicists make are wrong they are wrong.

>This is not an unexplained X-ray line from the galactic center. This is not the 750 GeV diphoton excess. This is not something where the first paper to correctly guess the peak number of COVID-19 cases on the arxiv gets a Nobel prize. People's lives are at stake and you're not helping.

I doubt anyone is claiming anything different.

>At best, you make physicists look bad. Epidemiology, as a field, already exists. Any prediction from a physicist tinkering with equations pulled from Wikipedia is not going to be a better prediction than that of professional public health experts whose models are far more sophisticated and already validated.

You're making a lot of assumptions here.  You're probably right to some extent about the Wikipedia thing but also probably wrong in a lot of cases.  For example, the Imperial College London group has their COVID-19 papers open sourced and they are well referenced.  It wouldn't be that hard to look up and read the references.

Understanding the mathematics of models is probably relatively easy and from what I've read of them they could at least use some suggestions from the physics community.  What I mean specifically are model systematics:

* What happens when you vary the input parameters?  

* How much do the results change?

* What about the numerical stability of the solvers?

I've read several papers by professional epidemiologists and some of them only mention potential errors in their models but don't try to put numbers to them.  Some quote a 95% but that's all.

So while we might not know anything about viruses and biochemistry, I think a reasonable case can be made for physicists to try and look at some of these issues, at least in an academic sense.

So stuff like this

>At worst, people die. 

is unhelpful hyperbole that tries to suppress people.
These are all legitimate questions to be asked and explored by people with extensive training in mathematics and statistics, as physicists usually are.

>Tomorrow's headline? "Physicists calculate 3 million Americans dead of COVID by July, predicts 100 million cases!" What happens after that? People panic. And when people panic, they make bad decisions. Those bad decisions can kill people. 

1. That's already kind of happening.  Remember when the ICL guy said 2 million will die in the US?  That was a limiting case scenario where there are absolutely no mitigation measures.  When in history has the human race come upon a new disease and taken absolutely no mitigation measures?  I can't think of anything.  Yet that number was all over the news, with the ICL PI giving support to it.  That seems more irresponsible than anything physicists have done.

2. That is not a scientific argument.  If there is bad science being doing then the people who have the training and expertise will ignore it, or they will refute it.  Trying to shame people into silence is against the spirit of science.  Think of how APS hand;es crackpots, they give them a space that no one pays attention to unless they want a laugh.  Of course, those crackpots aren't dealing with life and death situations but the practice of dealing with them should be the same.

3.  What about physicists and mathematicians with relevant research but no expertise in epidemiology or virology, like networking theory?  Surely that field is entirely relevant and could provide insights, but you'd dismiss otherwise good academics because they aren't in a position of authority?  That doesn't seem reasonable.

>Yes, I am literally suggesting that your paper on the arxiv might kill someone. 

Also unreasonable.  What you're effectively saying is people cannot be trusted to be responsible for themselves so other must be censored or self censored.  It isn't a short leap away from saying some teenagers aren't responsible enough to play violent videogames because they will go out and get a gun and kill people, so their games must be censored.

>Don't believe me? Reporters watch the arxiv for things to report on. Those reporters are not scientists. All they know is that a scientist said something, so it's fair game to put in a headline. The public is even less scientifically literate than those reporters, and when a person with credentials says something scary a very large number of people take it at face value

You're effectively blaming the ignorance of the public on scientists so scientists should self-censor so the public will feel better.  That's not a world I want to live in, even in an emergency.  If it's bad science, ignore it or refute it.  I promise you that's what policy makers and their scientific advisors are doing.

>Consider the pros and cons. The pros? You aren't going to contribute to the understanding of the crisis with a first order model you cooked up in a few days. 

Maybe not but it's not for you to decide.  Just like you are saying physicists are ignorant of epidemiology (which is a reasonable point to make) you are also ignorant of the research physicists and mathematicians are trying ti pursue.

>I'd like to live in a world where people are reasonable

Well, that's not the world you're suggesting.

>and where it's safe to share ideas and calculations freely.

That's now but you're suggesting we shift away from that because it's an emergency.  It's philosophically no different than politicians trying to reduce the rights of people in the name of an emergency.

>Please, be pragmatic about this, and don't put that paper on the arxiv.

Please follow good scientific principle and don't advocate self-censorship.

How this post got upvoted and how comments agreeing with out got so many upvotes is shocking and shows either that most people aren't scientists or they are scientists that lose their critical thinking under pressure. And also: **stop sharing conjecture!**

So many physicists are either making their own overly-simplistic models or they’re sharing and retweeting and emailing all of this dubious information. We need to take off our scientist hats here and not comment on these things or amplify unverified data. *You* may know that the model is missing some things, *you* may know that you’re only mildly interested in it from a mathematics point of view, *you* may know not to make life or death decisions based on the information you’re sharing, but other people *don’t* know that. 

Really, the best thing to do is to just not engage on this topic. Share official statistics and share any updates to restrictions, sure, don’t share models or predictions because you’re not qualified to actually assess their validity. Just because someone else made the model doesn’t absolve you of responsibility when you share it.. As a biologist my undergrad and graduate ethics courses pounded into me not to dessiminate information that could reach into medical advise, a big no no, but also that it was irresponsible to crowd out biologists that are experts in sub-fields either. I was particularly appalled at how Dr. Anders Tegnell, the Swedish doctor that specializes in viral mechanisms and epidemiology, is being superceded by experts that have much less experience than him. He was front lines h1n1. He's been vilified.. 1) It doesn't take a degree in epidemiology to wield mathematics properly. 

2) The average person is not carefully browsing arxiv for covid models, so you needn't worry about these weekend projects you speak of shaping the public opinion. If scientific papers had that much effect on people, we wouldn't need to have this conversation.
3) All of this is moot. Modeling the potential spread of this virus *accurately* is already enough to scare people. 

So would you prefer that we keep the truth from people because it might, perchance, *scare* them?  

Don't you think that awareness could save far more lives than it could endanger? I think the real issue with covid is that not enough Americans are taking it seriously - and by the time they do, it would be too late - then, that is the time people will panic  - and it won't be because of the data then. It will be due to first-hand experience.. While I understand the sentiment and severity of what you are hoping to convey, I can assure you that the gatekeeping and restriction of free, cross-functional experimentation, correlation, and modeling would actually do more harm than good. Limiting the collective brainpower (not to mention physical/time resource) of multiple educated, interested, and curious individuals is not the ideal measure of approach when confronting crisis. You are discounting the entire principal of interdisciplinary research and mode of discovery because of the fear of outlier results. Even though the 'leave it to the experts' mentality seems like the safe bet, benevolent curiosity has been the cornerstone of the scientific community, regardless of function or field.

You are not wrong in your assumption; out of all the media reporters, there is likely to be some whom look at 99 papers approximating 100 thousand cases then look at 1 paper approximating a 100 million cases and go with the latter story because it's more exciting. But that is how this all works. It keeps information in check. You seem to have little faith in the public's ability to decompress, discern, and classify information. Someone in the comments mentioned something about keeping our ego's (as physicists) in check; what is more egotistical that believing that we have to gatekeep information from the public because the media and the 'hoi polloi' are unable to reason or be rational themselves? Physicists, or even Epidemiologists from that matter, don't have a monopoly on consuming information, only on creating it.

Also,

>"Physicists calculate 3 million Americans dead of COVID by July, predicts 100 million cases!" What happens after that? People panic. And when people panic, they make bad decisions. Those bad decisions can kill people.

People don't make bad decisions when they panic; they make *heightened* decisions. This can manifest as desperation, but also increased serious rationale and cognition. By being spurred by a discouraging headline, people will also seek out *MORE* information, subjecting themselves to a greater amount of information which, after enough ingestion, will help lighten the impact of outlier information that could otherwise be damagingly false. Once again, give more credit to your fellow man/woman.

I will join with you and say that the time for hobbyist modeling or boredom-driven "afternoon projects" is not now. The heightened severity of the situation should breed a class of modelers and thinkers whose end goal is to contribute unadulterated to the broader discussion. Use their accreditation and titles (physicist vs. epidemiologist) as a way to judge the validity of their information, not as a license to produce it. You gave a "what if" exercise about Dr. Jones, so I will give mine: What if that model Dr. Jones produced accurately portrayed the effect of the crisis? These 'upsets' in modeling and predictions happen more frequently than we would like; at least enough for us to not discount 'non-specialist' information. That is the foundation of interdisciplinary research, and it proves fruitful.. Agreed 100%. People need to know that sci fi omnidisciplinary scientists are just for show.

That being said I'm definitely going to use the SIR model to teach my students the basic ideas of modelling, differential equations, and numerical methods(emphasizing that whatever I've done are totally toy models of course).

Edit: besides, even though simple SIR models and amateur fitting is no scientific way to predict actual numbers, they can still illustrate essential ideas, like how border control only delays the peak and the real measures that flatten the curve are those that reduce the transmission directly. Washing your hands, obeying quarantines, wearing masks, contact tracing are far more important than travel bans.. Wait, reporters get their scoops on arXiv? Really? Yikes.. Thank you. I think part of the issue is that once physicists (who are experts in *their* field) get to the point of being able to basically publish hot takes in papers on arxiv. 

I don't have a huge problem with trying to apply physical models to epidemology, but the way that some papers I looked at seem to literally do one or two curve fits and that's it. 

If you want sure to build a *model* sure, but hurr durr the virus looks *a bit* like a Fermi-Dirac distribution. There's probably an interesting statistical mechanics insight into diseases but just a curve fit?. > Yes, I am literally suggesting that your paper on the arxiv might kill someone

*"Physicists around the world refuse to post ground-breaking research due to COVID19 fears, is it time to panic yet!?"* is just as likely a headline.  The finger needs to be pointed at the sensationalist reporters, not at the arxiv papers.. I love this sub. Someone gives a grounded but still slightly confrontational post (especially to any with an inflated ego...) and this sub responds with 'that makes sense, I'm on board'.

  


No drama, no rebuke. Just a reasoned 'yup'. For our general lack of social skills e.t.c (generalisation) you are a lovely lot.. Relevant SMBC: [https://www.smbc-comics.com/comic/2012-03-21](https://www.smbc-comics.com/comic/2012-03-21). Here, we have a physicist who thinks different... [https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.27.20045104v1](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.27.20045104v1). > What happens after that? People panic. And when people panic, they make bad decisions. 

Sorry, I may be naive, but I'm a strong advocate for saying what you believe to be true. And I'm a strong advocate _against_ paternalistically trying to protect "those simple people" from their own reactions to true information.

Edit: and according to your argument, it would be a massive benefit to society if a physicist published a _completely false_ paper that encouraged people not to panic. Are you advocating that we do this? If not, why not? It would save lives, according to you.. Sounds like a fair request. I hope Reddit is the right platform to have a reasonable impact on the COVID-19 papers in the arxiv.. But the IHME model (on healthdata.org) is so shitty!  It uses the same Gaussian extrapolation that mis-predicted the AIDS epidemic years ago.. Wait, shit like this happens in the physics community too ? I thought it was only my field (Machine Learning) where people do just about anything to get a paper out. Damn.. This is a great post. The exact same problem happened during the ebola outbreak a few years back.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4426634/

https://news.umich.edu/faulty-modeling-studies-led-to-overstated-predictions-of-ebola-outbreak/?fbclid=IwAR16894Cow6K4_eVJtEyYHY6JR62XquQHGpUmAgGO-HR90X3k0g4SjGJikM. I do social networks research and it’s really *really* obvious who at SNA conferences have physics backgrounds.. Don't tell scientists to not do science just because you're worried they might mess it up. Just because physicists come from a different background than epidemiologists doesn't mean that they have nothing valuable to say. The fact that they do have ideas worth considering is the cornerstone of interdisciplinary science, and although some results may be wrong, other will be correct and will help us fight this disease.. You know what would be some great stuff?  research on home-made filters and masks.  There is a lot of data on surgical masks, and n95's.  Not a lot of data on home-made cotton masks. Excellent post.

This should be stickied.. very well put. The title really applies to my performance while working from home. At the rate I am working, there is no reason to keep pretending. I should totally stop writing my paper.. But.. but this is the #murdochracy way!  


I get it. I'm sick of the numbers too. Just stay the fuck home.. I think all this just highlights the need for the peer review process.  Any news outlet that reports on a preprint without acknowledging it as unreviewed and unconfirmed science is a tabloid in my opinion.  Don't tell scientist to stop publishing, tell peer reviewers to do their due diligence, which has become far too lax in the past decade.. There is another factor here that I think is important to mention. A lot of people are doing this modeling and posting preprints because they are a core of a lot of physicist's lives. There is something comforting and familiar about doing an analysis, writing a manuscript, and sending it somewhere. So I completely understand the urge and drive to do these things. It can be a source of comfort and normalcy to someone who is really well-meaning and wants to help.

**Preprint servers are not the best venue for this work.** The scientific communication apparatus has a huge gap in that there aren't many good, accepted venues for idle brainstorming and general intellectual fiddling, which is exactly what random physics models applied to epidemiology are. Everything in academia must be a finished product and until a person achieves tenure, they probably don't have any time or energy to devote to pie-in-the-sky theory. But please find a non-manuscript publication or discussion forum for your random manuscript. Discuss things in Slack groups or on Twitter or some other social media where it's less likely to be picked up and reported. Preprints have the veneer of authority because of their structure and status as "published documents" because most journalists don't understand (or choose not to understand) that peer review is a critical part of the scientific publication process and that they shouldn't ascribe any authority to a scientific product that hasn't been peer reviewed (although, for the record, I believe peer review can be much more diverse than just 3 colleagues offering their comments via and editor).. If you do have some expertise, and want to contribute usefully maybe take a look at [https://royalsociety.org/news/2020/03/urgent-call-epidemic-modelling/](https://royalsociety.org/news/2020/03/urgent-call-epidemic-modelling/)

They're asking for volunteers who will be given tasks and **directed** by the appropriate domain-level expertise.. That goes double for data scientists and ‘data scientists’.. This should be shared on r/data science. This isn’t about people writing basic models. There will be lots of people who write papers with even worse intentions. This is about the fact that journalism is broken and should be a democratised profession.. I never thought my esoteric knowledge of xkcd comic archive will come in handy, but here we are. I’m just going to leave this here: https://m.xkcd.com/793/. Any recommendations for good papers pertaining to modelling of the virus?. Wow so in physics too huh? And I thought it was only in the machine learning/data science community.... And here I was, thinking that the post title was calling for a general strike.... Sir models on arxiv from physics? How low you can get. It it not research, it is noise. 17 years old can do better with available data.

Also, not taking into consideration all the real world issues with the data in the first place.

Please stop.. When you realize even the well educated are fucking morons. This whole post stinks of virtue signalling.. AMAZING post. Just gotta nitpick on one thing:  
"We'll be discussing requiring an ethics seminar for graduate students (like *every other field!*). "

This should be mandatory, pandemics or otherwise. The mathematical sciences have for a long time ignored this with catastrophic results, or rephrasing it: It is way past time we started taking ethics seriously.. However, don't these papers help estimating the numbers in the coming weeks, which further help in preparing the amount of ventilators and other medical equipment required?. Hahaha. If it’s any consolation, this exact process is also happening with a bunch of immunologists who don’t really understand host-virus interactions. Grab some recovered patient sera/current patient clinical samples, run your favorite assay that has nothing to do with the problem at hand, expose your lab to a highly contagious disease. What could possibly go wrong?

I get the motivation. I do. But what people are doing is junk and they should stay the fuck home.. just put a few notes together on this...
ok everybody, let's repeat:

"bad science kills!"

https://medium.com/@jfaleiro/no-data-no-science-disaster-b028f70be34f. The best thing you can do to fight cv19 is everything you can do. Doing nothing means business as usual, waiting for ‘someone else’ to take care of it. Doing nothing means assuming governments have a plan, the right information and the best model. Until proven otherwise you must assume they do not. Doing nothing about grave threats to our society that don’t immediately impact us is how we are conditioned to behave. Doing nothing is what led us to this crisis. Doing nothing is what is going to help kill millions of our family members, devastate our countries and lead us toward global disaster. 
Please of course don’t publish crap on arXiv. Is that ever advisable? But by all means do something! If you have the wherewithal to deal with anything beyond keeping your self and your family heathy and sane, the best you can do is *everything* you can do. Talk to your colleagues who know more than you do, offer your help, make use of your skills, your connections, your sharp mind. Set aside *all* your usual nonessential work until safety is reached. Doing nothing or doing your usual thing means taking a vacation while others are desperate and dying. Sitting on the sidelines is for the weak and cowardly. We must reach out and pull together to win this war.. Darn I was hoping I could stop writing this COVID paper...or stop immunizing mice. Back to my 19hr days. Can you forward this to the computer scientists/data scientists/machine learners folks too please?. > Yes, I am literally suggesting that your paper on the arxiv might kill someone. 

This should have been the headline.   Way more eye-catching than the one you went with.. Have people died due to panicking from arxiv papers before?. > the benefit of one preprint to your tenure packet is minimal

I'm not in academia, but I cannot imagine that some random ass pre-print on arXiv about disease modeling ￼has any positive impact at all on your career as a physicist￼￼. 

If anything it's probably a negative – if I was reviewing a CV like that, I would be like why the fuck is this person wasting their time?￼. [deleted]. Finally someone had to say it.. Could you write me a doctor's note to my advisor?. Can you please cross post this (if you haven’t already) to machinelearning?  They’re arguably even worse, hobby ML wannabes using some resnet they don’t understand. “AI predicts millions die!!!”. Right now I am far more concerned about the disruption of food distribution logistics. There are already tons of spoiled food in trash bins because morons bought far more than what they needed.. I think this is great. There's nothing wrong with dusting off your old stat mech textbook, looking up some numbers, and building a simple model for coronapocalypse as an intellectual exercise. But keep it to yourself; let the experts in public health and epidemiology who are literally working around the clock to find out how to stop this thing do all the talking.. THANK YOU.   


I studied enough physics to know how much I probably don't know in every other field.   


I'm curious, and there is **NOTHING** wrong with playing with models,  making a r/dataisbeautiful entry, or tuning parameters on a SIR to see what happens.  I have a friend that did a kinetic model and he posted on facebook about it! Super cool!   


The problem is believing any of this is actually state of the art.. That is a funny correspondence of my optimism and the hoarding, I will give you that. Had a good chuckle. Although, hoarding toilet paper isn’t definitively a “bad” decision; moreover that reaction was driven mostly due to majority implicit consensus. And honestly... it’s toiletpaper: A relatively inexpensive way to prepare for spending more time at home (unless of course you are getting that premium quadruple ply antibacterial MegaUltraOmega soft stuff).

If anything it finally answers the question my parents kept asking me, “If everyone else jumped off a cliff, would you jump, too?”

Good thing I lived in Kansas.. That goes for you as well /u/tomrocksmaths

https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/fkzzpj/ive_made_a_video_explaining_how_math_can_be_used/

https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/fpywuz/if_youre_wondering_how_disease_models_work_its/ 

https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/fpnqbx/oxford_mathematician_explains_sir_travelling_wave/ ("**Your submission has been removed because You should contribute only high quality information.**")

https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/fmj5tj/exponential_growth_explained_for_the_covid19/

https://www.reddit.com/r/Coronavirus/comments/fkzuhl/oxford_mathematician_explains_the_math_behind_the/

(and other posts)

I know it gives you views and all, because it's a hot topic, but stop. I thought this was about regular physics papers. I'm not a physicist but i'm not so sure I agree. How is more eyes,information and analysis a bad thing? It's like you say, there are medical professionals making the decisions and this is just more oppositions to pull from or for them to ignore. Physics is fundamental and it's not historically uncommon for physicist to make major contributions to other fields from a physics perspective. It's not like physicists are doing surgery, they are just giving a perspective.. Thanks for saying this.
No matter how good you are in field "A", you don't write about field "B" if you don't have specialized knowledge in it.
I'm in cryptographic software and I'm fed up of seeing people with no real expertise saying BS about how the anonymization of the tracking should be done. Worst is, as OP pointed out, that BS is being picked up by the media end ends up doing more harm than good.. you know what's particularly hilarious is that you're using social behavior to tell physicists not to do math to help a problem.  I get your intentions, but you making an anecdotal story about why people have higher order beliefs about predictions of pandemic modelling is just as much of an assumption as the model itself.

>I'd like to live in a world where people are reasonable, and where it's safe to share ideas and calculations freely

none of these papers have any authority, weight, or should be used from other people without peer review and appropriate rigor.  That's how science works.  If someone goes online, or a media outlet uses some bullshit paper to create panic, then there's other problems at play here.  fake news is a problem, but you should not be telling other free thinkers to censor themselves.  that is NOT how science works.

>Yes, I am literally suggesting that your paper on the arxiv might kill someone. This is already happening with the daily news cycle.

this is complete bullshit and you have zero authority to make this claim.  you're being just as much of a vigilante as the people you're criticizing.. Gate keeping is never the answer.  It sounds like arxiv has a design flaw.  If the system doesn’t do a good job of promoting relevant over irrelevant signals, the answer can’t be to block signals.

The problem is you only think you can predict which papers should be allowed.  Truth is you can’t, you have deluded yourself by seeing a pattern and convincing yourself it is a rule.. Talk about it behind closed doors. Don't stop the conversation, speak your thoughts but only to those who can handle them.. Bravo!. I thought I was getting permission to stop studying :(. Right? I was like "Now is the time to write those papers we have been too busy doing project work to get out." Just so everyone knows, I'm still going to write mediocre papers that will be submitted to mediocre journals and read by at least no people not in my collaboration.. I would suggest alternatively to write code and put it anywhere you want besides arxiv. I read an article on towards data science about limiting the spread of coronavirus in late january that seemed to have a "proto social distancing" model. It was highly informative, and incredibly useful to read. 

My one complaint is that you are potentially telling people who may be able to contribute in some way to stay out of it. That's more dangerous than just telling journalist to stop capitalizing on scary articles on arxiv. 

Why not focus on the issues with the shoddy journalism? We know that the Associated Press puts anything and everything they can up. No bias, no anything, but it's those who cite the Associated Press that twist it any way they want.

Your idea is to suppress that formulation of theory so that journalists have nothing to twist, but honestly, a journalist is like a Jewish baker with magic hands which he uses to turn a crumb into ornate challah breads. The only difference is that these journalists' work is poisonous and unethical.

Or maybe the responsibility is on all those who may fear this disease to find a way to act rationally, but to tell those who research in earnest to stop contributing is not good. Just don't go saying your model is the correct one of you make one.. [deleted]. He/She had you in the first half. [removed]. Well we can assume the virus is spherical... Systems that cannot be moddeld with an harmonic oscillator exist? Impossible!. I've actually seen quite a few people attempt to model it as a damped harmonic oscillator with the assumption that it will have multiple smaller peaks after the first peak.. >Are you saying COVID-19 can’t be modeled as a harmonic oscillator?

Let's hope to god it can't. From the computer science and software developer side, I see the same issue. People implementing toy models everywhere with aesthetically pleasing visualizations. Most of the models are garbage and confuse people who can't differentiate. On top of that, the fact there's working and even interactive software gives many a false sense of credibility.

To those I say, please keep it in your private GitHubs. If you want to show it off later for a job interview, on a resume/portfolio, whatever... that's fine, but right now you're providing lots of noise to people trying to do useful work and find useful data, models, and frameworks they can rapidly leverage or build on. There's also about a billion "corona virus" case tracker sites built to auto update on lots of non-validated data sources.

The general public has difficulty determining which are empirical, rigorous, well thought out, etc. vs someone's neat side hobby.. Dude, you clearly should be using an Ising model. It's not just physicists. I'm an engineer and the amount of engineers who think this its just about the mathematical approach is shocking.

There are guys pretending they can just jump into any STEM profession with some bareback code, some name brand insititute (looking at you clowns @ NECSI) and some twitter clout (think 5-10k followers... at best). I mean the world only hears their opinions because they spend all day replying to the major reports on Twitter about how the current best in class models are totally wrong and how they've 'cracked it' ** - and if we don't listen we'll regret it**

Best part is they're all too stupid to see that the limit is not the fundamental mathematics/stats but more to with practical applications of it. Something they'd never understand because their relative epidemiological experience is 0. Theyre not epidemiologists and there opinion is worth less than nothing in this circumstance but they still go on wailing and posting. It's borderline fake news.. It can be modeled as a harmonic oscillator with negative restorative force.. What? Everything can be modeled as a harmonic oscillator! /s. Do you play DotA? I’m going to start charity streams and would love to teach you the game. Can you not like ban people from submitting papers for like a whole year or something for posting papers of such low quality?

Assuming non asians are immune with a sample size of one is just beyond stupid that they might aswell just be banned from ever submitting another paper to those places.

Even in high school you learn the idea of the importance of sample sizes before making conclusions.. Fascinating reply. Do you happen to have a link or name of the paper that got picked up by conspiracy theorists? It just so happens that I'm writing a paper on the reception of scientific knowledge and the public perception of science.. [deleted]. When someone says non-Asians are immune, if indeed they really said that, the problem is not the domain--it's that someone let them graduate high school.. The problem is that the publishing system is broken and that arXiv is not the answer. Nor is open access publishing. However at least we now have enough incentive to actually fix it since for once something we could do might actually make a difference to the world.. Or the one. The few: some of you may die, but that is a sacrifice we're willing to make.. You know it’s interesting as I am a consultant in an nhs hospital and I am studying astrophysics. I did exactly the same about 5 weeks ago, modelling the numbers using China’s figures and extrapolating. It was only then that I truly understood the magnitude of what we could be seeing if unmitigated and completely scared the complacency out of me. The look of fear on my face I think persuaded colleagues to get on with planning on how to deal with coming tsunami. No way was what I modelled worth publishing, as epidemiologists could have told me about it as undergraduates. Somehow seeing it yourself though brings it home psychologically more than anyone telling  you what’s going to happen.. Yup. Imagine an epidemiologist throwing together a paper about Ising chains after a few days of research. What are the odds that there would be anything remotely useful about those results? Physicists are amateurs when it comes to epidemiology.. Good. Epidemiologists have tools at hand to model this things in vastly greater detail. It is nothing new.

I have spatial epidemiologic model of entire Europe. So what.. This is exactly what I did - had fun with armchair research; kept it to myself because it was just for fun. When someone at my company suggested we utilize our technology/stack to do similar modelling and share the results, I replied all and strongly advocated against it.. Can you debunk this paper

https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.13.20035386v1

Is SIR model applicable for traffic lockdown in this epidemic?. The arXiv moderators already make judgement calls. They could probably do more to address this problem.

Also for what it's worth your title makes it sound like we should stop writing regular physics papers.. [removed]. also, take this time for yourself! it can be good to take a step back a way from work. this is a unique opportunity where some real growth can come for all of us. [deleted]. What did I just read? That guy is an idiot.. Michael Levitt hasn't been helping either.

 [https://www.calcalistech.com/ctech/articles/0,7340,L-3800632,00.html](https://www.calcalistech.com/ctech/articles/0,7340,L-3800632,00.html). > O.K. I’m going to tell you. I think the fact that I am not a great scholar on this and I’m able to find these flaws or these holes in what you wrote is a sign that maybe you should’ve thought harder before writing it.


> What it shows is that you are a complete intellectual amateur. Period.


> O.K. Can I ask you one more question?


> You just don’t know anything about anything. You’re a journalist. Would you like to compare your résumé to mine?


Wow.. Wow. [deleted]. OP isn't kidding tho, there are preprints using the Ising model. Yeap, here it is https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.11860. From what I understand, it's actually the Royal Society that has issued the call to all STEM researchers. For people out of the loop, the Royal Society has issued a call for any volunteers with modeling expertise (who are not necessarily proficient in epidemic modelling). Their goal is -

>RAMP's goal is to replace what might be a large number of relatively  marginal contributions by novices to epidemic modelling with a robust,  directed, and substantial effort that will genuinely enhance the UK's  capacity to predict how the future of the pandemic will unfold.

[https://royalsociety.org/news/2020/03/urgent-call-epidemic-modelling/](https://royalsociety.org/news/2020/03/urgent-call-epidemic-modelling/)

In my opinion this is probably the best way to harness the eagerness of the volunteers and increase the quality of future research. Deadline is soon though 2nd of April. NIST has been calling for people to help with modelling too.. That honestly sounds like a terrible idea. The models have been there for years, what's missing now is measurements to calibrate the parameters. More models won't fix that.. especially: https://xkcd.com/793/. No. In the words of my advisor after reading my draft, "Do... more...". Can you expand on Dr. Anders Tegnell? It seems that his thinking on coronavirus social isolation is opposite of many of the experts.. 3blue1brown puts an asterisk on his videos that's basically, "hey, I'm not an epidemiologist, but I'm a mathematician and here's the mathematical take". I don't see what's wrong with that. If you're a physicist, don't go around claiming you're an expert in climate science, epidemiology, or whatever unless you worked extensively with it.. > By being spurred by a discouraging headline, people will also seek out MORE information, subjecting themselves to a greater amount of information which, after enough ingestion, will help lighten the impact of outlier information that could otherwise be damagingly false. Once again, give more credit to your fellow man/woman.

I admire your optimistic take on a society that is currently hoarding toilet paper.. I once read a “news” report on an arXiv preprint where more than 90% of the sentences were factually incorrect.. > I don't have a huge problem with trying to apply physical models to [epistemology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epistemology),

Me neither actually. It's about time we pay back to those damn philosophers always questioning our fields. /s. What does epistemology have to do with this?. I won't disagree. 

Unfortunately there's monetary incentives for cheaply produced writing with low information density and clickbait headlines. Fighting capitalism would be a losing battle today. I'm a physicist, so I'm in a better position to advocate for ethics among physicists than among journalists, so that's what I'm doing.  I'm just trying to be pragmatic.. It's true that you can't stop the public from being misinformed, but you can refuse to contribute to it.. But why would physicists research biology or epidemiology to begin with?  
Nobody is saying physicists should stop publishing physics.. There is plenty of blame to go around. Armchair experting is dangerous and so is bad journalism (cf media (rightfully) shitting on Boris Johnson for his herd immunity ideas but not making it clear that the only reason we don't get certain diseases is exactly because of herd immunity, leading to an inadvertent demonization of the idea of herd immunity).. [deleted]. > If not, why not? It would save lives, according to you.

That's not necessarily true. If people were to be dramatically less panicked about the situation it could lead to less social distancing, exacerbating the problem.. I like how you argue against “paternalistically trying to protect those simple people” but then argue that producing a wrong paper that misleads people into being more relaxed could be a good thing.. Reverse thought experiment:
Imagine an epidemiologist doing a paper on black hole boundaries.
Now imagine the physics community reaction.. I mean science literally has a gatekeeping system built in, called peer review. That's kind of a crucial part of what makes science what it is.. [deleted]. Personally, I think those videos are pretty good. The context is important. Those videos are teaching math and physics and repeating the recommendations of public health organizations, rather than presenting simple models as exact forecasts.. Because experts should step outside of their expertise with humility and trepidation. The pandemic is not a problem that needs innovative ideas. It needs diligent application of well-established public health measures, brilliant application of cutting-edge virology and immunology, and committed political activity.

If you want to publish a paper about the Coronapocalypse, be like Feynmann. Go and study some biology at graduate level. If you don't have a graduate degree in a relevant biological science field, then shut up.

Sure, run little models and have some fun. I'm doing that too! But don't publish your toys while the grown-ups are using real tools to persuade governments to make good decisions.. Yeah I didn't even see that it was dealing with the ongoing concerns about the COVID-19 pandemics. As a PhD candidate in aerodynamics, I thought to myself "Great, free holidays!". Same. > and read by at least no people not in my collaboration.

Hey, the reviewers will ~~read~~ pretend to read it.. This is the way.. /r/2meirl4meirl. Do you have a link for the towards data science article?. Sure, go ahead.. Thanks man, I appreciate the encouragement.. "assume a pointlike non-interacting virus". Ironically, not the worst start as it seems to be spread by microdroplets.... No. If something is not a harmonic oscillator, it does not exist.. GR says hello.. This makes sense to me, but I feel like it’s pretty useless as a predictive model without the knowledge of epidemiologists.

Might be an interesting problem after all the data is collected though.. Is COVID ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic?. Was your various iterations of their, they're and there done on purpose to mess with my brain?. I'd expect med- and bioArxiv to have included that sort of stuff as part of their ethical requirements. A simple specific response like: "All preprints concerning COVID-19 must undergo a simple review by a subject specialist before being hosted on the site".. Yeah, it's [here](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.01.30.927871v1). Also see the bioRxiv comments on it.

The banner on the top of bioRxiv saying not to trust preprints blindly is basically because of this one.. Specifically I think it was about 8 people total (this was data on ACE2 receptors), but they based their claims on the Asian part of their data set, which was... 1 person.. can you elaborate on what was scary about your results?. I used to work in seismic hazard. My boss once told me, "our job is not to figure out the physics of the situation and understand that, it's to provide policy and decision makers the best information based on the data and modeling currently available.". I thought that as we are all at home due to quarantine with most universities stopping their academic year on its tracks globally. There should be more fun side-project arXiv papers, papers that solicit contributions from low level grads and undergrads all the way to the professors, papers that entertain ideas that would otherwise be a waste of time because of how extravagent they seem since now there are a lot of grad students and researchers with not much to do  so they have a lot more eyes and minds on those little projects... but oh well! Guess I should crank up a hodge podge 1st degree toy model and say how we're all going to die.... >  Censoring physicists' work and creativity is not the solution. 

I will encourage you to take a look at the papers being posted on the arxiv. The authors are in departments of engineering, math, and physics. Many papers are four pages or fewer in length. They use a textbook model. They cite four sources or fewer. The arxiv is a preprint server, meaning that works ready for submission to a journal are appropriate. These papers are comparable to a homework problem and would not be accepted to *any* journal. 

I don't think this is a matter of censorship or creativity. People are free to work on their toy problems. I think this is a matter of physicists not being pragmatic. We are not public health professionals, and we alone know that these numbers generated by extrapolating simple models are not *real* in the sense that they are coming from validated epidemiological models. To distribute them on a preprint server beside papers that are generally ready to be submitted to a journal seems irresponsible. 

> The links in the chain that should be attacked (or better, educated) are the journalists, reporters and even some governments who sensationalise and misrepresent articles / academic papers and their conclusions.

I agree, that would be the most effective way to combat misinformation. Physicists do not control the policy pipeline, but we can hopefully improve how it functions by injecting less noise into it.

> This positive influence would have been quashed if the author had taken your advice to only comment if they are a qualified epidemiologist.

I actually like that article precisely because the author does the due diligence required to make public health claims and has done the work to have it checked by epidemiologists. This is not what I'm arguing against. I'm arguing against the rising trend of disseminating calculations based on the simplest known models on the same platform that we use to disseminate serious work prepared with the kind of care that can be expected to pass peer review.. No dude. Come on.

1. A medium post is not a scientific article.
2. Nothing in that post is something epidemiologists weren't saying.

Physicists need to fucking learn that every other field of science can be as complex as theirs. A physicist will NOT catch-up in two weeks to what took a whole field decades of expertise to develop. Fucking hubris man.

Do you have a linguist posting a paper about QFT that is able to be meaningful input ?

Want to change field? SURE go ahead, do it. But everyone and their mothers know it takes years to be able to be useful for science.  Do you think this physics papers are being useful at  all?

Case in Point: Chemstry Nobel Laurete decides to say that Corona isn't that bad, based in numbers he came up with from a back of the envelope calculation. This shit was all over facebook man. He could have just ....stayed quiet.

Every physics department has that one professor that turns 60 and decides do go do biology or whatever. They seldom become leaders of the new field.. >Physics is in essence an approach to understanding and predicting the way the world works - [it is not restricted by subject matter](http://m.nautil.us/issue/35/boundaries/why-physics-is-not-a-discipline).

No, physics is not restricted, but physicists are. There is usually a sharp upper bound to what they can contribute in a subject they don't master and they are fuelled in thinking otherwise by a certain arrogance that is very common in the community. And indeed, inevitably, these covid articles look like they were written by crackpots.. There are indeed several links of the chain to be attacked in this story, and of course the ridiculous level of scientific journalism is the main culprit. But here we are writing in r/Physics, and it is fair to speak about our own share of the blame. Because we can work on us more easily than working on other.

To be clear: the point here is not about a physicist (or an engineer or whoever) not being allowed to do something because her PhD title does not match. The issue arises when physicists (or whoever) work on another field without having any idea about the existing state of the art in the field. I agree that physics is mostly a way of thinking. But, other than the way of thinking, to any scientific endeavor there is also a lot of subject-specific knowledge. Any physicist would scorn at an economist writing a paper on matter structure or quantum field theory with high school knowledge on the subject, even if the economist would surely bring to the table a different way of thinking. Somehow the same physicist would have no issues whatsoever about writing a paper about epidemiology with the equivalent of high school knowledge.

We read story of success of physicists in other fields (mostly economics) and many of us gets the superhero syndrome. A colleague of mine once said, speaking of a field he did not know absolutely anything about, something like: "I think it would be possible to use X to predict Y... sadly we physicists are few, we cannot do everything. Think how all sciences would evolve faster!" I was honestly shocked.

The truth is that those physicists that excelled in other fields studied A LOT of the basic knowledge and state of the art of those fields. von Neumann is very famous in economics as well. If you read his work it does not look like the work of a physicist at all. He worked with economists -- with Oskar Morgenstern his first and most famous publication on Game Theory -- and he studied the state of the art and did his due diligence before starting writing about something he did not know. Same is true even more for Fisher or Tinbergen, two geniuses often showcased as "Physicists that got Nobel prize in Economics", even if they both got a PhD in Economics before starting to write anything in Economics. 

On the other opposite there are several physicists that did a good career in physics departments while writing about economics in physics journals (or "multidisciplinary" journals refereed by physicists) while being completely ignored by economists. The only citations I have seen from economists to "econophysicists" is in the generic "Economics is a complex system" sentence in their introduction.

The OP post is not about scorning physicists (or economists) wanting to help in the COVID19 pandemic analysis. And surely no one is writing this pointing at those serious physicists (and economists, and engineers) working on epidemiology since years (Alessandro Vespignani comes to mind!) and clearly estabilished figures in the field. The issue is about telling physicists to study the subject before starting running a SIR model on a Ising lattice with a mean field approach, or at least before publishing it. Because it adds to the confusion, and since I agree with you that it is important to have zero or low censorship on arXiv, it is crucial to apply a bit of self-censorship ourselves. Before writing (or publishing!) something let's ask ourselves "Do I know something about this topic\*?" If the answer starts with "No, but I am a physicist, so..." maybe we can go back to Google Scholar to do a bit of reading before doing more writing. 

This is how we can get better our link of the chain. Even if there are weaker links this is what we can do on our side. Let's focus on what we can change.

\*other than a simplified two equations model thought as an example to teach differential equations during bachelor. I couldn't agree more. I am horrified by the idea that if you're not in a field, you need to shut your mouth. 

Problem solving and idea generation absolutely do not require domain expertise and, in many cases, such expertise can hinder rather than help these activities because "what they know" isn't always "what is". 

That scientists of any stripe would be so keen to censor another person's output is quite incredible to me. We're entering a new dark age where science is just a form of religion in disguise because stupid people keep reporting on things they don't understand and other stupid people then perpetuate their stupidity. 

If somebody publishes something stupid, refute it but no-one has the right to pretend that scientists of other disciplines are incapable of having better ideas than those of any specific discipline. That's even stupider than the bad papers.. >take a step back a way from work

\*cries in theoretical physics\*. I think the point is to leave the "little curve making" to the people that are actually experts in modelling epidemics and pandemics (which are in general not med students), rather than your average soft matter physicist that applies the Ising model to everything and their dog, pulls out a few curves that they can fit to some data, and then bleat out some generic non-conclusions.

If the original post does not convince you of the potential harm, maybe you will be convinced by the fact that all physicists worth their skin will see that you're (a generic you, not you personally) just a hack trying to score a cheap paper and a headline?. You sound even more arrogant by suggesting med students can’t do maths. Also epidemiologist probably know enough maths (at least those relating to the spread of diseases) and have better tools catered towards understanding the spread than a physicist who’s area of expertise is in photonics. And on top of it all, they have a better understanding of the structure and nature of the disease than a physicist and is able to fit models with more information. At best, the physicist would have an empirical model that doesn’t explain anything. From what I can take away from that article, Michael Levitt probably didn't say anything wrong. The article (especially the headline) seems just very misleading. The headline is:
>Michael Levitt Analysis: Corona Is Slowing Down

But if you read the arcticle it becomes clear his statement "Corona is slowing down" only refers to the situation in China and South Korea:
>Levitt avoids making global forecasts. In China, he said, the number of new infections will soon reach zero, and South Korea is past the median point and can already see the end. Regarding the rest of the world, it is still hard to tell, he said.        

He also emphasizes the importance of social distancing guidelines to slow down the spread of the virus multiple times, especially in regards to the US:
>“The more you adhere, the more you can keep infection in check.”

>"It is important to keep people apart and prevent sick people from coming into contact with healthy people.”

>“Currently, I am most worried about the U.S. It must isolate as many people as possible to buy time for preparations. Otherwise, it can end up in a situation where 20,000 infected people will descend on the nearest hospital at the same time and the healthcare system will collapse.”. You mean I can't derive the entirety of biology using QFT? \s. The funny thing is you see the same ego is so many fields. Doctors, programmers, economists. "I have learned this one difficult subject so I can easily understand all others.". I would say a person with a phd in physics has been prepared to do their research and also spend an equivalent amount of effort to learn a new topic and work within that topic instead. This is probably true for most technically demanding fields. The error isn't that they aren't capable, it's that they don't realize they lack the knowledge and experience that they are capable of getting except that the current crisis precludes them from studying and working in a new field for several years to establish the expertise required.. [Relevant xkcd](https://xkcd.com/793/). >Sure we might be able to wrap our heads round things quickly but there are people better trained for certain tasks.

Heifer International is better equipped to take on world hunger than I am, but I am still going to volunteer down at the soup kitchen.

Someone else being "better trained" doesn't translate to me being ill-equipped. Maybe it is because I am of a younger breed of physicist, but I loathe the day where I reckon in the face of crisis, "Even with the world locked in death and disease, I ought to not bother, for I can only lift one pin in the tumbler". Somehow it didn't occur to me until the whole Covid thing that the Fermi-Dirac distribution **is** the logistic function.. Physicist here, this is so incredibly accurate.. Computer scientist: "You're trying to predict the behavior of <complicated system>? Just model it as a monte carlo system and throw a bunch of computers at it.". Mine said maybe we should talk on Skype after last draft, maybe yours is better. I think his papers and interviews on the subject would represent him more accurately than I could. He seems to have consistently been concerned we might not be treating viral threats seriously for years and did prescribe national measures for this one. He seems a little confused the world went from 20% of warranted actions in previous novel viral outbreaks to 200%. He also has studied viral effects on the heart and patients with cardiovascular disease. Including mechanisms. More significantly, I think he's not scared to be totally honest with his experience. No biologist I know would dare criticize Corona over fear of being blamed if it did somehow become worse. It's novel and has no immunity but it's not very genetically different from virus's we've already studied. No one wants to be the guy who sounds insensitive to our most vulnerable but.. science demands truth. Regular people often jeer at the ivory tower, and the comment you replied to is just a reminder that the thing actually exists.. Fixed it now lol.. Autocorrect and cold fingers are a cruel mistress lol.. Funny, I think this is a fantastic discussion about epistemology. Jeah I think even if there was NO negative paperon the planet, "news reporter" would still make something up. I think it Honestly does not matter if it's 10.000 or 20.000 papers on a topic.. If the advice is "make better models" or "be better at choosing models" or "be transparent about the uncertainty of your model," then I have no objections.

But if the advice is "don't share models that will cause people to react badly," then I strongly oppose that.. Then just imagine a false paper that has _just the right effect_ on people to minimize the number of lives lost. And then you can engage with the thought experiment that way.. It's a thought experiment. In case it wasn't clear, I wouldn't support writing a paper like that.. Physics -> epidemiology an irreversible, entropy increasing process.. Except I doubt any journalists would be interested in such nonsense,so there would be no harm done.. They would be pleased if they wrote a good paper. In fact, there is a whole field of biophysics, so clearly its not unfeasible for biologists to contribute to physics. Also, physicists tend to be very skilled with modeling, differential equations, and working with large datasets, so they could realistically help here. Finally, not all papers on Covid 19 are on modeling its spread and growth, for example check out [this](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.12529) paper written by physicists which has to deal with screening/diagnosis of coronavirus.. A physicist whipping out a quick paper over the weekend that models the coronavirus with a diffusion equation or an Ising model isn't producing useful results, not when real epidemiologists and experts in complex systems are building models that properly account for things like public transportation, social distancing, and people who expose themselves to the virus by hoarding toilet paper.. Nah, you'll just get sent to do a crash course on computational physics. I've run a couple of workshops to this effect, and the number of grad students who couldn't bring the laser home was kind of silly. But some computational work is always good to pad out the thesis a little.. > Hey, the reviewers will read pretend to read it.

I wish. Latest paper had no fewer than seven reviewers, each responding with pages of crap. The reviewers also contradict one another. Yuck. Suggestion: When you decide to accept some of the changes proposed by reviewers, write exactly ONE document to submit together with the new version of your document and address everything briefly there (e.g. for each suggestion, say  if you accepted the suggestion or not and why).  


If they were good reviewers and did read your stuff, they will appreciate the fact that you made a summary of the changes and also realize not all other peers agree on everything and that you can't do P AND NOT P at the same time =). https://towardsdatascience.com/modelling-the-coronavirus-epidemic-spreading-in-a-city-with-python-babd14d82fa2

They go into some heavy math. You may be an all star at it for all I know, but I'm not sure of your skill level since I have no idea who you are lol. If you stick with it and just keep any math questions away from modeling experiments, you'll see some cool experimentation, like shutting down major traffic areas, and avoid getting lost in a bunch of details.

Honestly, their model gives too much credit to shutting down tiny areas because it doesnt account for people just changing their meet up locale, but I still think it's insightful.. I love these little heartwarming exchanges.. In my model, I include air resistance.. Well  *my* COVID model is robust across both assumptions! When can I get on a TED Talk?. Sorry boss, its been fixed :) should have read it through again.... They’re probably a bit busy right now. The whole point of preprints is that they are *not* peer-reviewed, but a deposition for people to comment and extend the reach of good science prior to going through the peer review process (and possibly improve the study, saving time). 

In a situation like this, the *rXivs may benefit from such a policy because of how much popularity they are suddenly seeing, but it does sort of go against their primary function.... Thank you. While other experts did jump in the comment section to disprove whatever's been claimed in the paper, it seems that it got a life on its own. 

It reminds me of this [publication](https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Lancet&title=Ileal-lymphoid-nodular+hyperplasia,+non-specific+colitis,+and+pervasive+developmental+disorder+in+children&volume=351&publication_year=1998&pages=637-641&pmid=9500320&) in The Lancet by Andrew Wakefield. In it he suggested credence to the debunked-claim of a connection between the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and development of autism in young children. The paper got picked up in many parts of the world and despite criticism it set the bedrock for the anti-vaccination movement we know today. The Lancet even retracted the study at some point but alas, to no avail. The damage was already done.. oh lol i deleted because i realized this was a pretty serious thread and didnt want to be the one making silly jokes but christ that horrendous. Nothing that is not already well known about exponential spread and logistic curves and distributions. Plugging the figures in yourself makes it more real I suppose.. I know better than to talk to a reporter.... Those wouldn’t be the only “homework” papers on arXiv. I don’t know why those types of papers are allowed on there.. "would not be accepted to *any* journal"

You seem to underestimate the number of absolute garbage journals that will accept and publish malformed HTML copied from wikipedia.. Meh... I think you're stretching to the extreme. The average layman can't even read these papers. I'm an engineer and I can barely read them. Most average people are still under the delusion that CBD oil might help.

I think you're missing the point of this sort of work. Everyone's scared. What people do when they're scared is whatever they're good at. The 3D printing community has been racing to print masks for the medical community... It takes 6hrs per mask. I've even been doing this despite my complete understanding that by the time I have a dozen made, factories that can spit out millions per day will be coming online. It's my own form of coping. Likewise I'd imagine physicists are trying to use what they're best at to help. Just like me, they probably know it's pointless. But it's all they can do. It's keeping them sane.. Case in point 2: linus pauling, a pretty smart guy, started a completely unfounded campaign for vitamin C.. I agree that you should always be aware of what you don't know.  I also agree with the OP's point that you should be careful posting half-assed papers.  

I do see another side to it however which I have from my own experience. 

In that very often that disciplines can be too caught up in their own methods that they may not be aware that much better tools for their problems exist in other domains.  It's true that people in other fields aren't epidemiologist, it's also true that epidemiologist aren't data scientist, mathematicians, or other fields which are dedicated to making and studying statistical tools. 

I've personally seen that effect in my projects I've worked on.  I came into a group from a Monte Carlo background and was able to immediately solve a problem other colleagues had been working on for some time.  Not because I'm so smart or any crap like that.  Just that since I had the background I could immediately see their problem was perfect for a Monte Carlo approach. I've also been on the other end of that where I got stuck in what I was used to and it turns out someone from a computer science background was what helped solve the problem. 

It's good to cross pollinate.   Just we have to make sure to do it in a smart way.  Credentialism can be just as bad as arrogance.. true, I am running simulations as we speak lmao. [deleted]. That was a joke... I know med students. Many are not strong mathematically. But you're right and they do know enough. My main point is. I generally agree with you but to tell people to cut it out. Tell people to think twice and list the reasons why sure.. [deleted]. Sure but this just underscores OP's point. People have been taking what he's been saying and running with it.

[https://thehill.com/opinion/healthcare/489962-what-if-the-sky-is-falling-coronavirus-models-are-simply-wrong](https://thehill.com/opinion/healthcare/489962-what-if-the-sky-is-falling-coronavirus-models-are-simply-wrong) 

 [https://thehill.com/changing-america/well-being/prevention-cures/489415-nobel-laureate-predicts-us-will-experience](https://thehill.com/changing-america/well-being/prevention-cures/489415-nobel-laureate-predicts-us-will-experience) 

[https://www.latimes.com/science/story/2020-03-22/coronavirus-outbreak-nobel-laureate](https://www.latimes.com/science/story/2020-03-22/coronavirus-outbreak-nobel-laureate) 

 [https://nypost.com/2020/03/24/coronavirus-turning-point-in-us-will-be-earlier-than-predicted-nobel-laureate-says/](https://nypost.com/2020/03/24/coronavirus-turning-point-in-us-will-be-earlier-than-predicted-nobel-laureate-says/) 

 [https://www.foxnews.com/science/coronavirus-turning-point-us-nobel-laureate-claims](https://www.foxnews.com/science/coronavirus-turning-point-us-nobel-laureate-claims) 

 [https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/coronavirus-michael-levitt-china-italy-a9422986.html](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/coronavirus-michael-levitt-china-italy-a9422986.html). Sure you can. Just assume perfectly spherical humans uniformly distributed on the surface of the planet.. I say we apply the annihilation operator on CoViD19.. I was shocked to discover this as well. Do you see any medical PhDs writing papers about QFT?. Yeah I’d agree with that for sure - the PhD, or even an undergraduate degree in some cases will prep you to be able to learn stuff for yourself. You bring up a good point about the time required aswell. In these dire times people don’t have the luxury to spend years learning a topic so it’s understandable how mistakes are made.. It’s more “ cuz I have a good grasp of maths I can lift the entire tumbler” when in reality you completely miss the mark. There are plenty of fields physicists are useless in - we are not gods gift to earth - the computer scientist, mathematician, engineers and physics all think they’re top of the academic food chain when in reality we all get trained to do different stuff and think in particular ways. Can second this. "Just use machine learning...". Haha, I was trying to figure out some deeper meaning about physicists needing to study learning. The advice is "don't share models of a sensitive issue if you don't have the expertise to assess their quality" or at least consult someone who can.. If you could accurately predict people's reaction, and you knew that reaction would save lives (and not have worse longer term consequences), then *of course* you should publish it, how is that even a question?

Abstract principles like truth and justice are extremely useful heuristics because in reality we can never predict the consequences of our actions, but that doesn't mean they supersede the actual outcomes. Not that it makes any difference outside of imaginary scenarios.. Biophysics is a subfield of physics though, not biology, and a huge part of the training is learning how to apply physics to biology in a reasonable way. Usually this means getting specialist knowledge in one small area of biology and working very closely with ‘real’ biologists so that you can be sure that your model is reasonable and not enormously oversimplified. A biophysicist who has focused their career on epidemiology may be able to make a reasonable contribution, but this is very different to what OP is talking about.. But what if your PhD *is* computational physics? Im going to need more than a little padding!. Even better when your papers are on the statistical minutae of a niche area in your field and of the three peer reviewers say "looks good. Talk about climate change some more" and the one actual statistical reviewer gives you the **best fucking comments and direction possible** on your paper thus making your paper better. 

Sometimes the peer-review process works really well. Sometimes.. Seven?? What idiot thought that was a good idea?! I can't imagine such a thing being at all conducive to good science.. In my model, COVID is the air resistance.. Wow, wow, wow, not so fast, buddy.. I left a "was" in mine for you. Lol. I'm aware, however, it is during times like these where such policies are necessary.. > I think you're missing the point of this sort of work. Everyone's scared. What people do when they're scared is whatever they're good at. 

I think we're in agreement. Hobby problems are a great way to stave off the boredom and anxiety, and fitting curves to data that updates daily can be a good way to find some normalcy for scientists. I think pretty much every physicist has done this at some point this year.

I am specifically objecting to disseminating these calculations as if they are research findings. That is the trouble, and what I'm asking people to avoid doing. I think many people are so busy trying to 'get a paper out of it' that they didn't stop to think whether they should.. He didn’t call you a hack. In fact he specifically said he was using “you” in the generic sense and not a personal “you”.. Exactly what yademir said; it's not a personal attack. Sorry that you interpreted it as such.. Good thing most computational epidemiologists are applied mathematicians then.. I prefer to model my spherical humans in a vacuum, far from other gravitational sources. Wouldn't that just turn it back into SARS. And there's a reason why the stereotype is "physicist telling every other field they're doing everything wrong" and not literally any other field telling every other field they're doing everything wrong.. I don’t think anyone, physicist or otherwise believes they can lift the entire tumbler; that is presumptuous on the levels of, “I am going to find a cure with math”. But to suggest that another statistical modeler couldn’t produce useful insight because their typical variables are energy and mass instead of population and susceptibility is just damaging and regressive. There is a reason interdisciplinary research is promoted and encouraged. It’s because it unveils otherwise stagnated discoveries.

Plus, do you really think the epidemiology infrastructure is not at all shocked by the sudden demand for its studies? Limit the collective brainpower (and time/physical resource) because “Hey! That’s not your job!” when lives are at stake? Careful how you answer that one because it is truly character defining.. One of the first papers on the arxiv is machine learning. They've taken 8 chest scans and a load of normal chest scans, thrown in a few light pneumonia cases and said "hey look machine learning is the answer!" 

It's very alarming.. In that case I think it'd be preferable if we just said "don't share models if you don't have the expertise to assess their quality." When the expected reactions of our audience start factoring in to whether we should publish things or not, that's when the situation gets really dicey.. My argument would be that there will _definitely, necessarily_ be longer term consequences for doing this. So I think we're on the same page.

Though calling truth an abstract principle rubs me the wrong way. Either your words describe reality, or they don't. That doesn't look very abstract to me.. Well then you have absolutely no excuse to slow down your productivity

-- your advisor. Big oof. It happens to be exactly that. The paper will be better for sure after peer review. It's just hard to reconcile feedback from 7 reviewers. Some academic physicists, some hospital based etc. They all have very different perspectives.

For example, one is suggesting a bunch of changes that would make it a more clinically relevant paper. Another is suggesting changes that would make it less clinically relevant and more of a 'proof of concept' paper. Can't be both :\. It's a lot of work. The journal is Science Advances. It's a good journal, but it's not like it's Nature or whatever.

I think 3-4 is the magic number.. I only do nude models. Now I am wondering what would happen if someone jumped into a pool of pure virus.. But why male models?. It's all good. I'm sorry. But I did delete it. People are piling on now. And I was wrong. Wish I had expressed it more clearly and politely, as I do still think there was a valid if irrelevant point buried under that poor excuse for an argument.. Then just apply it twice. Easy. Mate, go read some of the papers that physicists have been publishing on this topic. They are straight up bullshit.

Here's one for example [https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.11860](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.11860). Seven fucking reviewers? That sounds like a problem the AE should be helping you with. I (and coauthors) have disagreed with reviewer comments before and have laid out (in great detail!) why we're not going to incorporate their comments into our paper. I think your situation sounds similar inasmuch as pick the direction you think the paper should go and use those comments. 

Could the work be published both ways with not-that-much-more work?. R0 = i0 = \nu =1. Yeah we all know that won't get past peer review. Depends on the density, viscosity etc. of the virus. Are people soluble in virus?. I don’t understand your point. We label them as bullshit if they are bullshit. We don’t bar inquiry and paper writing. We review, we reject, we review the revision, we reject the revision. The lack of faith that you and OP have in the system is astounding. The link you posted would never be passed even by a media representative; that one is extreme for the sake of being extreme. If the media is scouring the trove of unreviewed Arxiv blog papers in order to make news, then your gripe shouldn’t be with physicists.. > I think your situation sounds similar inasmuch as pick the direction you think the paper should go and use those comments.

Yeah this is my approach. I'm picking the direction that best aligns with the focus of the journal.

> Could the work be published both ways with not-that-much-more work?

Not without additional experimental work. No chance getting another ethics application processed and lab work done under corona conditions, University is all but shut down.

I think seven reviewers is overkill though, if you think it needs that much peer-review and resulting changes, just reject the paper. I've never published in Nature-nature (only Scientific Reports), but I imagine that Nature might warrant such stringent peer review?. I find peer pressure works even better. It can be assumed virus is identical to water in this experiment.. The media don't know any better and so its scientists job to not publish bad science to pre-publish sites which media does look at. The media just look for headlines and wont differentiate between scientists A or B. Also, the system is really not as robust as you think it is, pier review has many flaws and pre-publish websites step round all the good which pier review does. Papers often get published which contradict each other and stuff like that. 

The point I'm making is not that physicist should not try to explain the world around them. Im fascinated by the maths of economics and that was mostly derived by physicist. Mu point is Its that physicists need to understand the limitation to their thinking that come about from working in depth in a particular branch. If not then shit gets published which the media can hype on and it delegitimises science.. Agreed. Even Nature's guidelines suggest that [manuscripts are sent to three reviewers, sometimes more, sometimes less](https://www.nature.com/nature/for-authors/editorial-criteria-and-processes). But seven? Surprising. Can you reach back out to the AE for assistance? Maybe to find out why they needed so many reviews?. Oh yeah my new journal I founded totally does away with peer review in favor of peer pressure. I wonder how and at what conditions it would crystallize..  
\*rolls out gigantic X-ray machine, points it in the general direction of pool-of-virus. Dons lead underwear, pushes button, runs\*. > The media don't know any better and so its scientists job to not publish bad science to pre-publish sites which media does look at. 

There is no "bad science". If a paper gets published modeling how the earth's magnetic field is generated by love and world peace, and if there is no conflicting theories, then that is the consensus until disproven or improved upon by another publish. And in your example of 'publishing to a pre-publish site'... then that's not a publish...

> Mu point is Its that physicists need to understand the limitation to their thinking that come about from working in depth in a particular branch. 

The premise that there is "limitation to thinking" is I guess a philosophical one which I won't get into here. You either believe that everything we have done in the world was done through thought, or not; I don't know how you explain the ladder. PhD's are literally awarded their titles because they broke the 'limitation of previous thought'. Or at least that is the idea.

> If not then shit gets published which the media can hype on and it delegitimises science. 

If that happens, it was because of our community's problem publishing, not the author's problem of theorizing. 

> Also, the system is really not as robust as you think it is, pier review has many flaws and pre-publish websites step round all the good which pier review does. 

I will admit, the system have far more proposed papers than it can handle; but those arn't truly published papers, and must be treated as such. The media needs to understand what value a publishing cert holds, or how one lone physicist going on the evening news is not representative of the "community". We can't control what other scientists say, but we can control the standard they don't (or do) want to hold them to. If they don't meet the standard, they don't get the benefit.

Also, since we are on the topic of pier review, what do you think: Chelsea's or Santa Monica?. I'm already about half way through the responses and it's due in 8 days time. I think I'll just bite the bullet and finish it off, I don't want to make waves given everyone is already strained by Mr. Covid.

Cheers though!. The Chad journal of science: Nerds need not submit. What’s Chelsea or Santa Monica?. Ye I guess ur right. Good luck and have fun!. Well... they are piers. I want you to review which one is better. The coolest thing about this isn't the momentum...its the reference frame. nan. I remember this episode of Myth-busters, They had to try a few times because the speedometer on the truck wasn't completely accurate. The ended up adding something to the wheels to see how fast they were spinning then back calculating the speed. The entire episode was really interesting.. What happens if the cannon was shot in the front? Double the cannonball velocity?. This is vectors. The momentum doesn’t cancel. The velocities cancel. 



Think of it this way: the experiment would be the same regardless of the weight they are shooting out of their truck. Had they shot  a cannon ball or a ping pong ball at the same (opposite) speed as the car, they would both appear (relative to a stationary observer) to just drop. 

Momentum has nothing to do with this experiment. . I would like to see the ball getting fired at 40 MPH...would be a cool effect imo. Nothing is cancelled. Please ignore any statements about cancelling as this is just piss poor physics. 
How you observe and measure any quantity regarding motion depends on your reference frame. 

I.e. if you're standing still, sure, the ball has no velocity (and hence, no momentum). If you're in the reference frame of the truck (say, sitting in the back seat), the ball has a velocity (and momentum away from you). If you're a car following the truck, then the ball has a velocity (and momentum) towards you.

Also, it would hurt if it hit you (or rather, you drove into the ball).. This is Momentum Transfer, NOT a Momentum Canceling.. This only works at non-relativistic speeds. . This was a lesson I learned while trying to do a draw shot playing snooker. The backspin was sufficient, but the forward momentum canceled out any reverse effect. Hit the ball with less force, and the backspin takes over. . Imagine yourself sitting on that truck, when the truck is in motion(w.r.t ground) you see that ball is at rest w.r.t you. When the ball is fired, keeping the same frame of reference you see the ball goes away from the truck at 50 mph. But for the observer standing on the ground truck was going at 50 mph and the ball was fired in the opposite direction with the same velocity. So, w.r.t to ground the ball stays where it is.. Does someone have this gif with the two cameras, but without the text? I want to use it in a lecture.. The coolest thing about this is how precise it was. Apart from the similar velocities, they fired the ball at the right time - almost in the middle of the grid. Or it was luck. . Relativity law. So if a plane is crashing you can jump and walk away if you:

1: can jump at an equal and opposite speed of the plane
2:right before the plane hits the ground. . This is so satisfying...!. Our teacher showed us this video when he was describing vectors to us. Cool video.. Not really exactly on the dot. It moves slightly due to Rotation of the Earth and the air resistance that affected the ball. Not 100% exact since there are other variables but makes the point nonetheless. This myth buster "experiment" really annoys me. ~~They're~~ Their protocol is "let's do this over and over until we get the result we want".

That's not how you scientifically prove something.. Unrelated to momentum. Just 0= V - V.. SCIENCE!!!. No, more an example that velocity is conserved.. Makes sense, cars usually say you're going faster than you actually are to avoid speeding.. Relative to the ground, yes. . Yes.. everything is haha. Ugh... Needlessly pedantic and also technically wrong. Momentum is literally a scalar times velocity, so yes, momentum is cancelled since velocity is cancelled.. You’re still cancelling momentum. If you were shooting a ping pong ball you’d need to apply much less force. Yeah, overall it’s getting the object up to the same speed as the truck, but in order to do that you must apply a force (change in momentum) to the object in order to cancel out the momentum it has moving forward.. I took this post from an r/interestingasfuck post that claimed momentum was the cause of the effect you see here. The point of *my* post was to explain exactly what you just did, and point out that momentum is irrelevant--reference frames are what it's all about.. The velocities cancel but also the momentums still cancel.  In the same way that the velocities times any unchanging scalar value cancel.  . Yes, though i guess momentum would be important to the conversation if they were also measuring and doing things based on the amount of energy in the blast from the cannon. . Technically you could use momentum to think about this issue. Using law of conservation of momentum..knowledge of forces(pressure per unit of area) the momentum the gas at the moment just after explosion has will "cancel" with the momentum that the ball already has. Just a different approach to the same problem. What? Do you have any concept of physics? If it was a lighter “ping pong ball” the impulse from the cannon would be the same in both situations and give it more velocity in the backwards direction. This experiment is entirely dependent on mass*velocity = momentum. If it were heavier and applied the same impulse, the ball would still travel a little in the car’s direction. Not even that hard to visualize.. Nothing is being cancelled.. The momentums cancel. The ball gun imparts an exactly equal in magnitude but opposite in direction momentum to the ball.. [deleted]. > ~~(and momentum away from you).~~

(and momentum) away from you.

FTFY. What’s the difference really? The forward momentum is cancelled relative to earth. The momentum of the ball is transferred to the canon. Not sure why the distinction.. Thank you, finally someone with some understanding.. Care to explain?. It *kinda* does.

If the truck fires a projectile at the truck-frame's "velocity of the world", the world will see the truck firing the projectile at what the world-frame sees as the velocity of the truck. Both should see it "fall straight down," right?

Some caveats:

 - Which velocity the truck's speedometer should be showing is a legal question more than a physics question.

 - You'd need to get *really* lawyerly if you wanted to claim that a truck firing a smaller cannon that fired a projectile (like a multi-stage rocket) "works" at relativistic speeds.

(Edit: formatting). I don't think that's true.. It's a Mythbusters episode.. Not if air was stationary relative to the ball and the earth. I mean, if you want to start counting the rotation of the earth, why not the velocity relative to the sun, or Haley’s comet? . https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/unscientific.png. It's well known that it'll work from physics, but doing it over and over again they had to tune their gun to do it. They didn't just do a bunch of trials and pick the one that worked by random chance. You can't scientifically prove anything.  Mythbusters job is to determine how likely a described scenario is to occur.  If you think that some myths they "confirmed" should instead be "plausible" or "busted" because they simply do something over and over again then lets talk specific myths.

You are upset because they have only a vague hypothesis, but that is not their fault as myths rarely include error bars and specific values in their telling.  As they do more and more experiments they are more likely to call a myth only "plausible" or "busted".. Experimental results get thrown out all the time if they didn't end up with the precise conditions they were trying to test with. Got contaminated? Throw it out. Piece of equipment set up wrong? Throw it out. Cloudy? Stow the telescope and try again later. No sense in considering data where the conditions aren't conducive to what you're trying to test. It took these guys several tries to get the conditions right. It obviously doesn't work when the conditions are wrong. . There’s a lot of factors that complicate this problem though, they can’t perfectly simulate what they did on paper so they had to tune their experiment until it worked. The momentum canceling can be proven easily on paper, but that’s a whole different thing than actually showing the process. I was honestly impressed they managed to get the experiment to work as well as they did.
. But that's pretty standard in science... It's called protocol optimization. You try a bunch a things and tweak the experiment until you find the the right way of doing the experiment...

THEN, you can do a bunch of replicates to test if the effect is statistically sound. Until then it is literally changing things until you get the result you "want". If you're testing something the same exact way over and over again and only select the data that proves your point then it is not scientific, but optimizing an experiment until it works the way you want is essential to science and often reveals very interesting insights when you finally figure out why something worked when other things didn't.

Finding the right media/synthesis/supplement/timings/cells/etc, that's all essentially just doing something over and over again until you find the one that gives you the result you want.. Duhem-Quine.  

Basically when trying to test/falsify something, if your experiment fails it's because either the hypothesis is untrue or any of the assumptions in your hypothesis are untrue.

So if you can think of a reason why your experiment failed, it's pertinent to fix it and try again.. They ***are*** protocol!. The goal isnt to prove sometjing. Thats also not how science works. 

The goal is to demonstrate intertial and non intertial referemce frames. We already understand the principle behind it. If it doeant work, its not the principle thats in error.. its the measurement tools. So yes, when we do a measurement incorrectly, we repeat it. . Ever met a scientist?  We are paid for exactly this--"repeat the experiment until you get the result I want.". Every myth buster “experiment” follows that protocol. . Velocity is *not* conserved. Energy and momentum is conserved, and part of the energy may be in the form of kinetic energy, but even so velocity is not a conserved value.. I suspect you mean velocity is relative . ........

What??? . Interesting, I never saw it stated anywhere but I always thought this was the case after driving past spedometers saying I'm going 58 when I saw I was going 60. Another reason, at least in Europe, is that the law says they can never read too low, and that they can read up to 10% high^(1,2). To make sure they always read in [100%, 110%], they have to set them high.

US regulations allow +/-10% at 50 mph


^(1) https://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-drive/culture/commuting/why-you-may-not-be-driving-as-fast-as-you-think/article11487709/

^(2) http://www.oecbi.com/blog/vehicle-speedometer-accuracy-how-fast-are-we-really-going/

. And to expire your warrantee quicker. nah, actually more like 1.999999999999989 times the velocity. Yes, except, pressure, temperature, density... as well as higher order tensors such as stress, strain, gravity gradient.. [deleted]. I think what they mean is, you do not need to know the mass of the objects involved in order to make this prediction of 0 net velocity. So while momentum is canceled, the concept of momentum is superfluous to the explanation of the phenomenon.. But momentum before and after the cannon ball has fired is conserved.  You have to remember that after the cannon ball is fired, the truck would accelerate causing it’s velocity to increase. So the momentum of the entire system is the same. The momentum isn’t just cancelled. . Weirdly defensive, given that that wasn't what you said.. [deleted]. Sure but the point of this demonstration is not regarding the force needed to accelerate the ball to the requisite speed. The experiment is not about the cannon, it’s not about what would happen if you shot different masses out of the same cannon on the back of a truck. It’s about what happens relative to a stationary observer, when the muzzle speed of the object being shot matches the truck. 

Do I have any concept of physics? Hmm not. Sure. . This is not really true: the momentum the ball has, is not matched by the momentum of any object in the experiment. The velocity is matched to that of the truck, not the momentum. . Yes, but since the masses are very different, the momenta are as well and thus don't cancel out.. No need to bring mass into this. That's a *pedantic* douchebag to you. At least get that part right, Jesus. . Why thank you, good sir. May your Asian nation sensation last long 

lol. [deleted]. Basically its true because at relativistic speeds, in order to accelerate a soccer ball enough to cancel the momentum in a shot like that, you'd need enough energy in a short enough time to completely obliterate the ball, cannon, car and nearby surroundings in a MASSIVE explosion.  Other than that, /u/iluvstephenhawking is full of shit.  There's no reason that a relativistic cannon couldn't fire a projectile to match the velocity of the 'stationary' observer.  

The best I can figure is that they (mistakenly) think that the required velocity of the projectile wouldn't match the velocity of the car/cannon because addition of velocities is non-linear.  Thing is, that would be wrong.  The numerator in the lorentz transformation addition of velocities formula still has to be zero.   Meaning that the magnitude of the velocity of the relativistic cannon relative to the "stationary" observer, and the magnitude of the velocity of the ball and/or "stationary" observer relative to the cannon *would* be equal!  So they are  just entirely wrong. . I think you get a whole lot of weird stuff when you go near light speed. Due to it being harder to accelerate the closer you get to light speed. 
Not sure tho.. Um because the sun’s rotation doesn’t affect the rotation of the earth? Also Haley’s comet? I don’t think you know how rotation of earth affects trajectories. Snipers need to take into considering the rotation of earth and the wind speed in order to make sure the bullet actually goes the right path. . Shots fired at string physicists. . Exactly this.

&nbsp;

It's not that the ball was fired at exactly the speed of the truck on every attempt and they just picked the one random occurrence that matched their hypothesis. They had to tune the apparatus of the experiment to actually do the testing. Once the proper test was conducted, the results were as theory dictated. They're not working in a laboratory setting. Setting up the experiment takes trial and error over multiple attempts.. > It's well known that it'll work from physics

They're not always so careful, though. Their "bullet fired vs bullet dropped" [experiment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tF_zv3TCT1U) is based on suspect physics (it should only work exactly in a vacuum), so this "try until we get it right" approach is totally off-base -- in that case it supports a bad conclusion.

To back up the argument that it doesn't work with air resistance, two points:

1. "Classical" air resistance is proportional to the square of velocity in the direction of travel. Say one bullet is falling at 3 metres per second. It's upwards drag is 9 times some coefficient (say "9x"). Say another bullet is falling at 3 metres per second and is going forwards at 4 metres per second. Its total drag is 25x, which (by similar triangles) means its upwards drag is 15x. The fired bullet has more upwards drag, and should fall more slowly, because you can't simply calculate the drag component-wise.

2. There are bound to be weird aerodynamic effects. Does the bullet fly level when it's falling, or does it point along its trajectory? That probably depends on the gyroscopic effects of its spin. If it flies level, it probably generates some weird up- or down-force. If the bullet isn't spinning, that's a whole 'nother kettle of fish...

TL;DR, this experiment only really shows that you *can* fire a ball out the back of a truck and have it fall straight to the ground.. Always happy/amused to see Quine referenced in /r/physics. Damn it! At my defense English is my second language.. speak for yourself dude. . AFAIK they obviously can't be entirely accurate. They base your speed on the rotations of the wheels. But your wheels have a larger perimeter if they are just inflated, and if the car is empty. So I believe the speed your car shows is close to the maximum speed *based on the rates ye wheels are spinning*. So in practice, it will be (slightly) lower. And maybe there is a built in safety margin, to make sure the displayed speed never underestimates your actual speed. Well, no biggie you only need a cannon and a soccer ball and a high speed camera to easily calibrate... So if a sign says you can drive 60 and you drive 60 you're actually driving a bit less so you don't get a ticket. . [deleted]. I read through the owner's manual of my VW and it mentions it.. How was the tread wear on your tires? Old tires with a half-inch of tread missing resulting in a full inch of diameter loss can add up to a few percent loss of speed compared to how the speedometer was calibrated... Did you do the relativistic math?. 1/((sqrt)1-v^2/c^2)

That shit will stick with me forever. . Everything's a tensor! (Not really true as pointed out below). 'twas a joke my friend. Momentum is also relative. If I'm in the reference frame where the velocity is 0, then the momentum is 0 as well. If the mass was lighter, the result would be the same only if you applied less force with the cannon and more force is required if it is heavier.. It's cancelled for the object you're looking at. And you can ignore the truck in this system since it's momentum is orders of magnitude larger than the ball.. I was being defensive. This line:

> Momentum has nothing to do with this experiment.

made me think he was chastising me lol. im not sure what beside my title would have made him think of momentum, and im pretty certain he read my title wrong. . All entities in the center of mass frame of the universe.. It doesn't work that way.  One entity.  Multiple reference frames.  . Velocities don't "cancel", momentum do.

For this problem, this is not relevant. But if the ball were moving close to the speed of light, you would talk in terms of momentum.. Which masses are very different?

The momentum that the ball had before it's fired is "cancelled". The experiment can be modeled on that basis, although it's more complex than necessary.
. Semantics. *tips hat and nods head*. “Because the ball doesnt lose its momentum relative to earth, “

It does

“it transfers its momentum to the moving car. “

It does

After the "launch" the car gains speed while the ball loses speed relative to earth. 

Agreed. [Edit: what I've written below is wrong. Although I thought /u/EngineeringNeverEnds was being rude and misinformed, he was actually slangy and correct. I, on the other hand, shouldn't reddit before my morning coffee]

Except that "firing a ball at XXX mph" is clearly to be read as in "in the truck reference frame". So yeah, you can rephrase it so that it works under Lorentz transformations, but it just doesn't. In non-relativistic mechanics the experiment would work in any reference frame.

Btw, I wouldn't normally enter such a pointless game of words, but I thought that maybe you may be the one who's full of shit. No I do, but the fact is that once you start factoring in negligible influences on motion, you might as well be talking about the rotation of the galaxy impacting the motion of the ball.

But that’s not the point. The point is that you’re completely wrong. The ball at the point of leaving the cannon is exactly (possibly not, but it is the effect that is being generalized by the demonstration) stationary relative to the surface of the earth. That is an instantaneous velocity of two points being equal. Whatever happens after that is equivalent to simply dropping the ball from the release point. Not sure why you need to muddle that up.. Its not a test, Its a demonstration. We already know that the cannon will have the velocity of the camera, if everything works according to plan.. Tldr: "Plausible". Never had a single paper change my view on something so completely.

I was pretty well into the popper falsification camp and would have generally agreed with the OP of this thread.  

It was Quine's paper...and I've actually never read Duhem.. Your English is certainly better than my [INSERT ANY OTHER LANGUAGE HERE]!. I am ALL a scientist on this blessed day.. What about GPSes such as a Garmin that displays your active speed as well?  In my experience, it almost always matches my car's dash.  And the Garmin calculates the speed based on the location of the car and how fast it is moving according to GPS satellites.  . Speedometers show speed based off driveshaft rotations with the designed tires.  PSI isn’t going to alter the tire size much unless you are going way low or way over.  So they are pretty damn accurate. Unless you put some big ass tires on a small car. [deleted]. You don't even need a camera, just an accurate cannon. If the ball moves one way or the other after it hits the ground you know you weren't dead on . I'm pretty bad at reading sarcasm, so I dunno if you're joking or not. If this is really the case, I had no idea about this. How much are speedometers offset by?. The difference is greater at higher speeds.  At 10mph it isn't going to be off by 5mph, but at 90 it could be.  . r/theydidtherelativisticmath. ... just γ really. No. We live in an affine space not a vector space. Also, there are objects that behave like spinors which aren't tensors.. I'm not your friend, pal. No you can’t ignore the truck because the ball starts as part of the truck (in terms of mass). The total momentum before the ball is fired and after the ball is fired has to be the same. It doesn’t matter how big or small that momentum difference is. . >  im not sure what beside my title would have made him think of momentum

Probably the caption under the animation?. He probably read the caption in the GIF and not your title. Sorry to dump all of this on your comment but this is a huge pet peeve of mine. 

No one thinks you are thinking about the concept wrong, especially after your clarification (even if they did who cares?).  Your clarification was defensive by your own admission.  Why did you get angry? You know you were thinking about it right and someone tried to explain to you what you already know - your brain thinks its bad that someone else thinks you don't understand something when you do.  However this isn't the failing of /u/astrocosmo.  It was your failing.  You didn't communicate your understanding well.  Your title is misleading and if you stop attaching your ego to being  "right" you could freely admit that, improve next time and move on  with your day because YOU know that you understand the concept. Sorry again.    . thst sounded a bit cynical . 1.  This isn't a "game of words".  It is physics and one of us is objectively correct.  And I'm sorry, but you are completely wrong.  
(Is this a troll post?  I ask because you've offered zero explanation of what you think wouldn't work about this, yet continued to argue.)

2.  And actually, this experiment still works in any in inertial reference frame in relativistic mechanics.


If the truck is traveling at v in the earth frame, it will observe the stationary track to be traveling in the opposite direction at -v from the reference frame of the truck.  It will then fire a ball at -v and observe that the ball and earth are stationary to each other.  When you transform back to the earth frame, they will observe the same thing: a stationary ball in its reference frame.  

In fact, while velocity is relative, two objects being stationary with respect to each other is NOT relative.  No reference frame exists that can disagree with that.  It would be unphysical and lead to contradictions in causality otherwise.  If not, some observer could see the earth and ball become arbitrarily separated, and yet someone on earth could walk over and pick the ball up and we'd have two observers disagreeing about the physical history of the universe.  That's not possible in special relativity.  GR with CTC's maybe, but even then it's extremely dubious.

I have to speculate what you are mistaking because you haven't offered any explanation, but my guess is still the non-linearity of the velocity addition formula in relativity.  Unfortunately that non-linearity can't do anything because the sum must be zero.  ie:

In the horizontal direction:  u = (v+u') / (1+ u'v/c^2) where u is the observed velocity of the ball from the earth frame.  u' is the velocity of the ball according to the truck reference frame, and v is the velocity of the truck in the earth frame.   We know u is zero in the earth frame so (v+u')  MUST sum to zero in the earth frame to make.  so u'=-v exactly as expected.  ie: In the truck reference frame, the ball is traveling at the same speed indicated on the speedometer.  (Note as usual we're assuming zero velocity of the truck in its own frame and the speedometer is simply measuring the speed at which the earth flies past)

At this point, I'm not trying to make you look bad.  I just want to educate you. Can you better describe what you think won't work here?  Something in your understanding of special relativity is quite mistaken.   ....another big thing students new to the field get mistaken frequently is what can and cannot be different about measurements of the universe between reference frames.  Things that lead to causal violations don't happen in special relativity.  All the apparent paradoxes in SR resolve cleanly one way or another. 
. Yes I know the rotation of the earth doesn’t factor quite into the spectacle as much as air friction does. However, I would say your comparison of trajectory change due to earth rotation vs moon or galactic rotation is way off. When seal snipers calculate trajectories, they don’t take into account moon or sun or anything else other than the rotation of the earth itself. Therefore, the trajectories on earth will be affected by it but not by others due to distance and the  negligible gravitational affect from other sources . r/unexpectedkenm

But seriously if your description of what you do is accurate, then you're not a scientist. You're not doing science. You're contributing to a mass cultural delusion that "there's a study for every opinion" and that science is a religion where if you believe something hard enough it makes it "science".. In my experience the GPS always shows a few km/h less than my dash.. when i got my last new car it was so weird because all of a sudden it felt like traffic was going faster everywhere... i got a GPS, found out my car speedometer would always show a speed 3-4 MPH higher than what i was actually doing . From my experience, my car shows 2 mph slower than the speed on gps.
My motorcycle is 4-5 mph slower than what its speedometer says, assuming radar signs are accurate.. Here are my cars rated against my Garmin.

2001 Honda Accord: 4-5 mph fast (so, Honda 64, Garmin 60)
2009 Lincoln MKS: 2-3 mph fast
2011 Ford Explorer: 1 mph fast
2017 Ford F-250: right on so far

I like to drive 5 over everywhere, for 5 years I drove that Accord thinking I was going 5 over when I was really doing the speed limit before getting the Garmin. . They are not offset. . r/itwasarelativisticgraph. Yep. . Ah that is true. Got carried away there!

Not actually too familiar with spinors. From what I understand they seem to transform like vectors? Or is that incorrect?. im not your pal, buddy. I know what you're saying. But, do you take into account the sun being pulled by the Earth when you're talking about the Earth's orbit? No. Because it's entirely negligeable. Yes it's there, but no one in their right mind cares to consider that. It's the same thing here.. I don't think you're being very fair. My ego isn't attached to me being right at all (not that you would be able to tell that from a single comment anyway)--I freely admit all the time that I'm wrong about shit. I love being wrong. It's the best way to learn. 

[Some examples](https://np.reddit.com/r/television/comments/85me89/a_john_oliver_spoof_of_the_pence_familys_new/dvzwv66/)

[just from](https://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/7bldfo/trump_made_a_personal_address_to_kim_jongun_north/dpj6lzl/)

[recently.](https://np.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/81xn63/til_in_2000_portugal_decriminalized_all_drugs_if/dv6nd7u/)

I admitted I got a little defensive here because of a misunderstanding. It's not a big deal. If people get a little defensive sometimes, it's not a mental condition or a failure or a sign of validation craving. It's normal. We all want to be understood, right?

> Why did you get angry?

The irony of this part of your comment is not lost on me. Defensive is not angry, and if me admitting I was a little defensive means I'm admitting I was angry I take it back. I thought defensive meant "anxious to challenge or avoid criticism", not angry, because I wasn't angry. It would be pretty stupid to get angry over something like that haha. I was a little confused so I put some emphasis into what I was saying because I didn't want to be misunderstood. That's defensiveness, or at least what I thought it was. 

I don't think me or /u/astrocosmo failed here. Honestly, I think the only person who failed here is you. Not in a bad way or anything, but maybe you should ask yourself if you actually *can* tell the difference between defensiveness and anger (via written word anyway), especially since your misinterpretation of my mild defensiveness as anger led to your grandiose claims about my ego. Were you aware there was a difference? I recommend rereading the comments and checking if I was angry or just anxious to be understood. 

edit: if it helps, I consider [this comment](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/8d6hab/the_coolest_thing_about_this_isnt_the_momentumits/dxlfzqj/) to be more angry than defensive. like I wouldn't call that defensive haha, but he definitely looks a little angry. Dear Sir,

you're right.

I actually have some knowledge of relativity (even if I haven't used much of it in the last 8 years), so I can understand your response and yes, I agree you're right and I was wrong.

I have commented on impulse this morning (it was before my physics neuron started firing, apparently) because of the perceived harshness and gratuitousness of your remark about another user. Turns out that "full of shit" basically just means "not being right" and is not supposed to be derogatory, as I initially thought.

So I was wrong on two levels, and well, sorry for that.

. Perhaps I should have used /s.  I left the academic science scene because of the entire system we have set up to reward publication of sensational results over negative results.   When the scientists depend on publication for livelihood, and you need positive results to get published,  the scientists will get desperate.   The system we have does not reward real science.   

Now I'm a clinical medical physicist,  and I'm paid to find the truth, and I like it ;). . I use an app on my phone called Waze and it’s almost always exactly accurate on the speed my car shows it’s going, I’ve been wondering how they do this for awhile.. Jep that is incorrect. Vectors transform under the (1/2,1/2) rep. of the Lorentz group while spinors transform under (1/2,0), (0,1/2) rep.

However you can build objects (e.g currents) out of spinors that transform like vectors. im not your buddy, friend.. Ironically,  this is the most defensive comment I've ever seen.. [deleted]. If it helps, my brain also wasn't firing on all cylinders this morning,  (I have a 3-week-old at home!) and I thought you were /u/iluvstephenhawking.  

And when I say "full of shit" I just mean someone who authoritatively declares something that's totally wrong.  I would never use it in the context of someone presenting a flawed argument with explanation of why they think that.  

But to simply declare something wrong without presenting anything and then fail to respond in any meaningful way is pretty solidly in the "full of it" category.. My bad. I completely agree with you though. Not only does it disempower negative results, it discourages replication studies as being unoriginal, despite them arguably being more important than "discovery" studies.

I'm really happy for you. How does being a clinical medical physicist differ from academia? . I'm not your friend, chum. As intended, no irony about it. The point of my comment was, it's ok to be defensive sometines.

The real irony I suppose is that I got a little angry writing that. It's amazing how many Redditors think they can understand your whole life story and diagnose any mental conditions you have from a few words in a single comment.. If they’re comfortable talking, let them talk.

No memory off any server of mine. . My job is basically to work with sources of radiation in hospitals used for diagnostic imaging to ensure that they are used safely and produce optimum image quality.  If there are problems with the way things are working, I have to find the problem and think of solutions.     Instead of the atmosphere of competition and hosiltiy and politics common in academia, I generally have more suppoetive relationships with the people I work with, because we are all depending on each other to get our jobs done.

I won't be making any glamorpus scientific breakthroughs, but I am helping people, and I like that.. I'm not your chum, mate.. Woah, man calm down. You should see if you need some anger control classes or something. 😉. I’m not your mate, cuddie.. When I was a child, I always wanted to be Adam Sandler's character in *Anger Management* ^^\s :PP The fire tornado in a bubble experiment is a fascinating demonstration of the principles of convection, combustion, and fluid dynamics.. nan. That "I nailed it" smile by the end of the experiment.... I think this is the original source: https://youtu.be/PtWkt_IlOIs

It looks like his name is Dustin Skye. This is cool.


Imagine trying to get this right and explaining to your boss why you deserve another round of funding while playing with bubbles. He has very stable hands!. Absolutely Stunning. That’s really cool. Witch. To create a fire tornado, a flammable gas, is released into a bubble filled with air. The gas is ignited, and as it burns, it heats the air inside the bubble, causing it to rise. This rising hot air creates a low-pressure area in the center of the bubble, which draws more air and fuel towards the center.

As the fire continues to burn, it creates a vortex, which causes the rising hot air to spin around the center of the bubble, creating a mini-tornado. This vortex is similar to the way a tornado is formed in nature, with the rising hot air creating a low-pressure area that draws in more air and causes it to spin.

The flame is drawn towards the center of the bubble, where it ignites the gas and creates a column of fire that spirals upwards, creating the characteristic fire tornado shape.✨✨

[https://www.youtube.com/@supergiantbubbles/videos](https://www.youtube.com/@supergiantbubbles/videos). Cool. T. If my teacher just started doing shit like this to begin class I would love science. This will be the next big thing the festi ravers will flock too. All wearing black, ungodly bad techno, starting vortex fires while blowing bubbles.... Crazy/awesome. I'm sure some foofoo bar will incorporate this into one of their $40 cocktails soon.. His next ‘experiment’ illustrates the principle of combustion by eating fire while on a tightrope 

God this sub is a joke. Wow!. cool. You are now the coolest science person on the planet!. The background music sounds like the kind of music you'd hear at the end of a romance movie. Like, it's soooooo close to a Peter Gabriel song. A white  business woman who just wants meaning to her life and a cartoon dog just look longingly into each other's eyes from across the room and realize that nothing has ever meant more than their desire to go to bone town.. Wtf did he blow into the bubble?. Damn what has Edward Norton been doing with his free time!?. ELI5!!??. Fucking wizards doing crazy ass wizard shit all damn day.. I did not know this.. This sub needs more content like this.. Skeet want to test fluid dynamics of felines like himself.. Funny. Now you’re just showing off!. [deleted]. Bubble physics is hard. I figured out how to make uniform micro-bubbles a while ago. I'm looking for 10mil for a 10% stake.

https://imgur.com/gallery/3guTvyG. Could never be me, would pop that bubble immediately due to me smashing into it with something!. I think you missed a step. He blows at an angle into the big bubble before breaks the smoke bubble.

He has induced the spin. The tornado exists before he lights it on fire.

The rising hot air is outside the bubbles. No heat is being actively transfered into the bubble.

Maybe a little from radiation. But def not convection.. Do not attempt this at home.. yes, they do.. What kind of response is this?. That’s cool. You should see what happens if you do that in a solution of a material that can quickly form elastic air-water interfaces. I did some work on BslA in the past. It’s a protein that forms elastic interfaces so quickly, it can stabilise anisotropic rod shaped emulsion droplets as a result of trapping the filament that forms during droplet break-up in emulsifier rich conditions or snowman droplets by arresting coalescence in emulsifier poor conditions. I wonder what would be formed with this technique (with air or oil?).. hello friend, it is me your brother, with the $10 million as requested. Pressure differential causes the gas to eject from the bubble. Expanding hot gases from the point of combustion tend to expand upwards, leaving a low pressure area which aids in evacuation of the bubble

Edit: obviously the bubble is evacuating prior to the flame ignition, showing the pressure differential predates combustion.. Was wondering what generated the spin. how easy is to do that?. I accept PayPal, Bitcoin and cash jammed in a FedEx tube.. >Edit: obviously the bubble is evacuating prior to the flame ignition, showing the pressure differential predates combustion.

So either the tension of the bubble surface is pushing the gas out the hole in the top (this is my guess), or the gas in the bubble is lighter than air (unlikely for typical fuels). The first detailed images of atoms (electron orbitals, 2009) came from Kharkov, Ukraine. nan. Some great Ukrainian scientists in world history also include Gamow, Korolyov and Antonov!. Am no physicist, but are those the 's' and 'p' subshells?. This is a bit controversial depending on who you ask, but most molecular physicists and theoretical chemists would say that you can't really observe orbitals (atomic or molecular) as orbitals are only a mathematical construct and not generally observable -- i.e. they don't really exist. What they're really observing is just a representation of the electron density and its response to the probing potential of the instrument. 

A short paper that explains this: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jpca.7b05789

Not to take away anything from the accomplishments of these scientists. Just that claims of people actually observing HOMO and LUMO orbitals with one technique or another are made often, but it's not really orbitals that are being observed.. The article and some of news stories back then:

 https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.80.165404

https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/real-electrons

https://www.insidescience.org/news/first-detailed-photos-atoms

13 years later I still don't know any better (?) - maybe it is a good time for it to be granted some prizes?. heh it's a butt.. Stunning images 💞. plenty of scientific firsts came from africa and the middle east. yet I see no posts about that when those regions are violently invaded and occupied. interesting.. Very cool.. Scientists aren't supposed to be political, I thought. I don't think anyone ever doubted that there were and are amazing Ukrainian scientists, there's also lots of really great Russian scientists and they came up with a lot of cool stuff too. That's why the politics thing just doesn't seem to fit this sub. 


None the less it is really cool to see these amazing scientists and their findings. Lots of big brains over there.. What would we see if we could actually look at an electron  near a nucleus tho? As far as I know these are just electron density representations and orbitals are mathematical constructs.. It's them doing mitosis, that's how the atom make more.. Such finely wrought intricate beauty. slava ukraini. [removed]. Hopefully will stay Ukraine 🇺🇦 ❤️❤️❤️. I believe they have things substantially larger than atoms flying around Kharkov at the moment. [deleted]. ‘detailed’ to a physicist.. 1s and 2p orbital I do believe. Can someone explain to me how this photo works with the theory of Super position?
And also please explain how taking a photo of an electron cloud does not collapse the wave function into a specifically measured point where the electron is.. fished those bad bois straight out of chernobyl. I remember reading this when it came out and I’ve had trouble finding this image ever since. So happy you posted this!. would that be an s sub level orbital from 1st energy level and a p sub level orbital from 2nd energy level? trynna learn more rn. Landau studied/worked in Kharkiv for some time, too.. Many well known names e.g.:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Ostrogradsky

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Kistiakowsky worked in Manhattan Project

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sergei_Korolev

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Marchenko

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oleksandr_Mykolaiovych_Sharkovsky

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonid_Levin

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikolay_Bogolyubov and https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikolay_Krylov_(mathematician,_born_1879) lived in Kyiv

https://www.imena.ua/blog/ukrainians-in-science/

https://mon.gov.ua/eng/science/nauka/nauka-v-ukrayini. Reznov?. Yes, here you can easily download the paper: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228616738_Reply_to_Comment_on_%27Imaging_the_atomic_orbitals_of_carbon_atomic_chains_with_field-emission_electron_microscopy%27. These are images of electron probability distributions of orbitals (s and p above)  - removing electrons with electric potential, shaping EM field to act as a lens, and measuring the final electron positions.

While they neglect wavefunction argument arg(psi), you disagree it measures probability density |psi|^2 ?

Could it be improved to measure the argument?. So I only understand QM at the intro undergrad course level... But is your objection that we could choose a different set of functions?. This seems like a fairly meaningless philosophical distinction.. This is a lot like saying "you aren't actually seeing the picture, you're just seeing the photons emitted/reflected by the picture and interacting with your cone/rod cells that produce an electric current that propogates in your optical nerve and is then interpreted by your brain". Sure it's *technically* correct but it misses the point of what's actually going on in favor of semantic reductionalism.

I'd argue that an even better version of your statement is that they're directly observing the electron probability density of the orbitals (which is an eigenstate of a hermitian operator and is therefore physical).. Lol homo. Hey! It's 2022 we don't say LUMO anymore!. [deleted]. Scientist should be politically active. Should Linus Pauling not have forged one of the first nuclear arms treaty since he was a scientist? Scientist also get their grant money from the government, so it’s in their interest to be politically active for parties that give them more grant money. Also new developments need new legislation, we are currently seeing that with CRISPR and gene therapy regulations with the FDA. Scientist need to be politically active and should help write that legislation because they are the subject matter experts.. Science has been political for centuries.. Even scientists might get political if being shot at.. [deleted]. This is indeed a very good question, I don't think well understood (?) - e.g. we usually imagine nucleus as perfect point, but there are processes where it interact with orbital electrons e.g.:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron_capture

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_conversion. [removed]. Yes. It shows clear as day the s orbital vs the p orbital.  People theorized the arrangement of electron clouds on paper about 50 years before this picture was taken. I can’t imagine what Linus Pauling would think of these images. Do you know more detailed experimental images of electron orbitals?

It is now 13 years later, but I have to admit that I don't know any better (?)

They used https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-emission_microscopy. This is not a single measurement but a collection of measurements. The deepness of the blue corresponds to the probability density.. cześć, friend. you might be interested to know that the official romanization of the Ukrainian cities you've mentioned in Ukraine are Kharkiv and Kyiv. the versions of the names you have used are derived from the Russian spelling of the cities' names. Ukraine officially defined the romanizations in the 1990s. it's completely understandable that folks have been continuing to use the Russian-influenced spellings because of the long history of that spelling, but given that you're promoting awareness of Ukrainian science and culture, I thought you'd like to be aware of their preferred spelling of their city names :). Bogolyubuv did especially interesting work in the building blocks of statistical physics, quantum field theory, and kinetics.

Krylov is also very well known today in numerical methods.. No, but the total electron density vs. the density of individual orbitals are two different things. As I said, orbitals are purely a mathematical concept not a physical observable -- although it might be possible to measure properties indirectly related to molecular orbitals (albeit this too gets complicated considering the multi-determinant nature of the exact wavefunction). 

> Could it be improved to measure the argument?

I'm not sure what that means. Also, I'm a theoretician, not an experimentalism, so I don't want to make any big statements about methods I don't completely understand.. Not exactly. The orbitals are 1-particle functions that help us solve the many-particle Schrodinger equation. So they're just a mathematical intermediates to obtain what we're really after, the many-particle wavefunction. The many-particle schrodinger equation is non-separable, so the individual 1-particle functions don't necessarily have a physical meaning. That doesn't mean they can't be associated with physical observables such as ionization potential. But directly observing a single orbital density is somewhat questionable. 

It's confusing because in a lot of introductory chemistry (and maybe physics) courses we teach of s, p, d, etc. orbitals as though they're real things, but they're not (except for the H atom). They're just very convenient tools to help us understand the electronic structure of atoms and molecules.. No not really. It’s physically impossible to observe the state of a single electron in a multi-electron atom since the wave functions of all electrons are entangled  and there is no single state assigned to an individual electron - there’s only a state describing the system as a whole. This is combined with the fact that we choose to use the l,l_z and m_z quantum numbers is rather arbitrary, and we could just as validly describe the shapes with a completely different set of wave functions. In the end, it doesn’t matter which we choose cause these levels are all degenerate and without a perturbing potential, an electron will only ever exist in a superposition of all the states with that energy in whichever basis you choose, giving a spherically symmetric distribution each time. 

The probe itself introduces a perturbing potential, thus breaking the degeneracy of the orbital wavefunctions, but the same problem of the multi-electron system being entangled as described above remains, and the degeneracy would not be broken into the spdf orbitals even then (unless it’s a single electron atom). Not at all. You could *MAYBE* make that argument if we were talking about the wavefunction itself, but when you go through the process of solving the schrodinger equation with any wavefunction method, you're going to see that orbitals are just your basis. They are purely a computational tool. You wouldn't say you're measuring \hat{i} by taking a GPS coordinate of something, and it's the same idea here. The confusion mostly arises because most chemists do not understand mean field approximations and have never actually derived Hartree Fock because it's way beyond the scope of any undergraduate class.

And if we're talking about the wavefunction in general, it's still very questionable because you need to explain why the wavefunction is special and gets to be real even though there's no obvious difference between a wavefunction and a normal probability distribution when you actually run through the theory. Orbitals are still different though because again, they are purely a computational tool.. Not at all. Orbitals are regions where there is a high likelihood of finding the electrons, not actual structures (if that simplification makes sense). Hence, atoms contain unoccupied, empty orbitals.. Regarding to the first part of your argument, that's not at all what I'm talking about. 

Regarding the second part, I am making the distinction between the electron density of orbitals (plural) which make up the wavefunction, the density of which is observable, and the density of a single orbital, which imo is not observable -- unless indirectly. Plus, iirc, the postulates of QM state that every physical observable has a corresponding hermitian operator. I don't think the converse is also true, i.e. that every hermitian operator has a physical observable.. An experimental physical chemist (or a theoretical chemist with good knowledge of experimental techniques) would be better equipped to answer these questions. I'm as theoretical as it gets when it comes to my work. But I'll do my best. 

1. The degeneracy is going to be a problem here, since the actual excited state of hydrogen in vacuum is a combination of px, py, and pz. Then again, the very act of observation/probing would likely disturb the system and maybe break the degeneracy 

2. Yes, if the hydrogen is excited into a p orbital. 

3. It would be as simple as exciting the lone electron into the pz orbital as long as the pz is non-degenerate with px and py. The hydrogen atom is the only case where orbitals = wavefunction. 

4. They work (most of the time) because the molecular orbital model is extremely effective in providing chemical understanding. That's why Mulliken won the Nobel prize for inventing them. Technically speaking, only the total wavefunction can give us insight into the physics and chemistry of atoms/molecules. But because the total wavefunction is mathematically related to the individual orbitals, we can obtain more or less the same information from them. And because of the simplicity of molecular orbitals, you don't necessarily need to be aware of the underlying mathematics to obtain the same insight -- at the risk of being wrong when the MO model itself is wrong or incomplete.. No you are totally right. I wasn't thinking of it that way.. That is a good point I suppose. I was trying to ignore the fact that scientists made the bombs that ended the war (WW2). And scientists made gunpowder and missiles. I just think of science as so pure which is not always true.. I don't know how I feel about that.. Ah yes sorry. I meant when it interacts. My comment was too glib out of laziness. Thank you for the links kind polish stranger.

To elaborate does the term of "shape" of orbit or "orientation" of electron orbit make any sense when its at different energy levels in an atom. Are there known geometries these electrons orbits display rather than the mathematical constructs we have made to display their wave function, density and numbers to describe their guage parameters. 

Can a density  plot be considered a geometry?Can the probability distribution help here?

Since the electron is essentially a cloud of probability, is there a way to extrapolate some topology of what its path or its position looks like at different energy levels and locations away from the nucleus?

Does this question violate the uncertainty principle? 

Am I an idiot asking nonsense?. [removed]. Indeed, this is extremely important work, for me one of the first thoughts when hearing what barbarians do with Kharkov now.

It would likely lead to many prizes if coming e.g. from USA.

Maybe it is a good time for some physics societies to give some prizes for it now?. [deleted]. [deleted]. Oh cool thanks. My apologies and thanks for information, this is how it was spelled in the article: https://journals.aps.org/prb/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevB.80.165404

>I. M. Mikhailovskij,* E. V. Sadanov, T. I. Mazilova, V. A. Ksenofontov, and O. A. Velicodnaja
Department of Low Temperatures and Condensed State, National Scientiﬁc Center, Kharkov Institute for Physics and Technology,
Academicheskaja, 1, Kharkov 61108, Ukraine. I agree that single particle orbitals are a purely mathematical concept in many electron systems. However, they can be constructed (under certain conditions) such that they are close approximations to many body wavefunctions and give a lot of valuable insights.

How to interpret the MOs from imaging experiments is a different story. What you usually see is the reconstruction of a quasi particle state. For the example of angular resolved photoemission it is the Dyson orbitals, which can be approximated by MOs (again under certain conditions!)


https://doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/16/10/103005

https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.107.193002

https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1176105. >As I said, orbitals are purely a mathematical concept not a physical observable

You mean the wavefunction. But the position expectation value |<ψ| r |ψ>|^2 is perfectly observable. Depends what you mean by orbital.. To make sure i'm following what you are saying -  

What is pictured aren't orbitals - its the wave function of the system of electrons?  

Orbitals aren't pictured because orbitals are more of a mathematical construct.  Whats 'really pictured' probably depends on whether you ascribe to Copenhagen(wave collapse), Everett(many worlds, the wave function is reality), or others (pilot wave, etc).. 13 years later I still haven't seen anything better for experimental "image of atom" (?)

Regarding argument measurement, while due to gauge invariance we cannot measure absolute arguments, in theory relative could be - e.g. making that electrons from two positions can meet later, and measure effects of constructive/destructive interference (?). Orbitals *are* wavefunctions, at least according to my (admittedly hazy) recollection of the definition and a bit of light googling. I don't think it's a stretch to use "observing the orbital" as a shorthand "observing the probability/electron density".. I'm confused how the electron probability density of a single orbital isn't observable. One could imagine a scenario where the atom was constrained to always be in a specific state (e.g. The lowest bound state) and then all measurements would yield the properties of that orbital. Maybe there's some Quantum mechanical property at work that forbids this? 

I was confused as well, so I did a little reading on the subject. In the finite-dimensional case, all eigenvalues of hermitian operators are observable. However, in an infinite-dimensional case (like the hydrogen atom) the operator has to be self-adjoint within the Hilbert space in order to be required to have observable eigenvalues.. Science is a social construct - both influencing politics through bombs, genetic engineering, statistical models, etc. ... and being influenced through priorities, education, grants, etc. ...

But now we have barbarians destroying, among others, the city of the first detailed experimental images of atomic electron density clouds .... As a citizen of the U. S. of A. it is vital that I be politically active.. In mainstream view, the orientation of orbitals is in "m" projection of angular momentum, leading e.g. to slight energy correction in Zeeman, Stark effect, fine, hyperfine structure.

The question of hidden electron trajectories is indeed controversial, but natural (and you are talking with organizer of http://th.if.uj.edu.pl/~dudaj/QMFNoT ) - e.g. what exactly happens when electron approaches proton and form hydrogen atom? Or when electron gets measured position in discussed "atom image" experiment?

Bohr electron trajectories are still alive in literature, especially for Rydberg atoms - with electrons in orders of magnitude larger distances: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rydberg_atom

There is also less known alternative with electrons nearly free-falling on nucleus, e.g. allowing for ground hydrogen with zero angular momentum as it should be: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-fall_atomic_model

There are also hydro-dynamical analogs of orbit quantization, up to double quantization like (n,l) - with e.g. Cassini-oval-like orbits: https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms4219

ps. Also MERW is worth looking at - properly made diffusion (accordingly to maximal entropy principle), giving stationary probability distribution exactly as quantum ground state: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximal_entropy_random_walk. [removed]. I mean... Yes. But that is what electron orbitals are. Maybe take a look at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_orbital?wprov=sfla1. To put it in layman's terms for you, those images are different cloud shapes representing distinct orbital patterns (which have names, s and p) for electrons in an atom. It's some taught in high school chemistry. 

The image is impressive starting with the capability and technological advances that have lead to the verification of a concept theorized for years. Honestly though, it doesn't look like you actually care what significance an image like this could have based on your comments. Maybe take some time to do some self-learning or take advantage of the resources people have offered    Degrading a significant piece of research and using descriptions that help won't get you anywhere. 

You may want to look up what a layperson is while your at it. The usage of the word makes you sound like a sidewalk person. The phrase you're looking for is, can this be put in layman's terms.. Are you an idiot or yes?. Interesting. I wonder if it is/was APS' copyediting policy to spell it that way.. > such that they are close approximations to many body wavefunctions and give a lot of valuable insights.

That's an incredibly weak argument. Read the short paper they linked. Orbitals that perfectly match experiment are not unique. We typically just pick the picture that either matches the heuristics of pre quantum mechanics organic chemistry or match what you'd get from a qualitative approaches you can get from by hand calculations ala Huckel's method.. > You mean the wavefunction.

Not exactly. An, orbital is a single particle function that is an eigenfunction of the a single particle hamiltonian (i.e. the Fock operator). We use orbitals to construct the total many-particle wavefunction because we can't really solve the many-particle Schrodinger equation.. No. What's measured is the electron probability density. Orbitals are not a physical thing and inherently cannot be measured. There are an infinite amount of possible orbitals you can take that will give you a completely correct solution to any observable possible after you do your favorite way to solve the many-body schrodinger equation.

Similarly, the wavefunction is also just a calculation tool and you can't observe it in principle. It's just a probability distribution that tells you the probability of finding a value of X for Y observable. You cannot measure the wavefunction any more than you can measure a normal distribution by measuring a bunch of people's heights.

This has absolutely nothing to do with quantum mechanical interpretations. Just whether you've actually ever thought about this or not. Or if you have thought about this but decided you aren't above lying for a nature paper.. Nope. The orbitals are eigenfunctions of the Hamiltonian while the wave function is the probability amplitude of the electron. The difference is that there are many choices of eigenfunctions we could use to describe orbitals - the spdf orbitals are the result of calculation in spherical polar coordinates. One could just as validly find the eigenbasis by calculating in the regular Cartesian coordinates, and that’d give you a completely different set of orbitals.

Think of it like a cake. The whole cake represents the electron wave function (ie everywhere the electron can be). You can divide this into slices, which would each represent an orbital. You could choose to slice it either radially or in squares, but at the end of the day the cake is the same. 

This analogy doesn’t work for multi-electron atoms, but in that case individual electron orbitals don’t even exist - there’s just one wavefunction representing the whole system of electrons. See my other reply to your comment. It’s because the exchange symmetry of 2 electrons dictates that they must be anti symmetric under exchange. This means that the wave function describing a multi-electron system is not a simple outer product of the individual states: they’re entangled. It becomes meaningless to speak of the state of a single electron since the state is only defined for the whole system.

For example, if |a,b> is the state of electron 1 being in state a and of 2 being in b in the basis of single electron states (ie the states assuming there was only one electron in the system), you’ll find that because of their exchange symmetry, the combined state must be of the form 1/sqrt(2) {|a,b> - |b,a>}, and since exchange symmetry must always be observed, you cannot collapse this to an |a,b> state via observation. You’re only able to ever observe the combined state of these electrons. I'm not sure I follow. 

> the atom was constrained to always be in a specific state (e.g. The lowest bound state) and then all measurements would yield the properties of that orbital.

How is a specific state mapped into a specific orbital? Except for hydrogen, the atom is a product of many electrons. If I understand correctly, you are conflating the concept of the wavefunction and the orbital. They're not the same. An orbital is a single particle function and an eigenfunction of a single particle operator (usually the Fock operator), while the wavefuntion is n-particle function and the eigengunction of the Hamiltonian (usually approximate). Orbitals are constructed by a guess and optimized such that they lower the total energy -- and the total n-particle wavefunction is constructed by an anti-symmetrized product of these 1-particle functions/orbitals. However, because the total hamiltonian is not separable, i.e. it cannot be represented as a combination of one-particle operators, the above construction does not contain the interaction between electrons. Further steps are taken to account for that interaction which go beyond the one particle approximation. 

Moreover, orbitals are not unique. There's virtually an infinite choice of orbitals that will map to the same wavefunction/density. In that sense, there may be ways to transform the orbitals such that the HOMO and LUMO (highest occupied and lowest occupied orbitals) may describe properties that approximate physical observables.. I'm all for you speaking your mind. My original comment was really about the often lack of science in political messages that involve science. It kinda got derailed somehow.. Wow thank you soo much this is so interesting. I will read up on these and refine my questions for the future.. If it didn’t look blurry where would the uncertainty be?!. I appreciate your response and its educational opportunity.. Everyone is an idiot in some aspect of their experience.  I never studied physics and, as a result, am not familiar with what an electron cloud looks like. But hey, now I know.  There have been some really informative responses here. Yours however, not so much.. Ah, this whole conversation I thought we were talking about a hydrogen atom (and I thought that the image above was of a hydrogen atom too). Now what you're saying makes more sense to me.

I was imagining the single electron case where an orbital corresponds to a specific state, unless I'm wrong about that.. Then why are you bitching about it? I wouldn't go to an engineering subreddit to say some stupid shit. No, I was talking about multi-electron atoms or molecules. If it's a one-electron system, then yeah, the orbital is the wavefunction.. I wanted to know what is special about this image and I received a handful of responses that led me towards learning something.  For that I am grateful.  As for bitching? Seems to me you're projecting.  What did you open reddit for today? The little rover that could. nan. I know this is breaking our own rules, but I think we can all pay respect to that little guy.. F. Am I wrong for being emotional over this? It feels right. . The little rover that very much did.. Rest now, brave pioneer. Perhaps we shall meet again one day. And it be thanks to you.. [That'll do](https://tenor.com/view/babe-family-thatll-do-pig-good-job-well-done-gif-3455220).. Sun shines in the rusty morning  
Skyline of the Olympus Mons  
I think about it sometimes

Sun shines in the rusty morning  
Once I had a good fly. R.I.P. opportunity rover. Yo that bad boi’s big af though.  Who saw that r/nasa post???. o7 little buddy. Why does mars rover’s end of the mission makes me sadder than grandma’s death?. [deleted]. Is it broken? Which one is it? what was it called i mean. . 😞😭😞😭😞😭😞 WHY U GOTTA DIE AND MAKE ME FEEL SHIT..... WE ALREADY MISS YOU OPPY. My grandfather worked on this writing binary and shit.. 👍. Always wondered why we don't just put wipers on these rovers.. Thanks for getting me into science as a kid, Oppy. 
*We are all proud of you.*. Red Hot Chili Peppers-Death of a Martian:

https://youtu.be/51hih5cu-FQ. He will forever be in our hearts<3. In all seriousness; if how did it last so long??
Did NASA seriously overestimate it’s life span by that much or was it just a lot better built than originally believed?. A moment of silence . Screw the wall! Lets all agree to put 4 billion on a maintenance mission for the dusty little rover!. O7. I hope we’ll retrieve those little ones one day. Maybe even by hand, who knows.... F. Why do I always tear up about stuff like this? I cried when Cassini died and when Kepler went out of service, now little ol' opportunity! ;(. How can we not be sad? 
“My battery is low and it’s getting dark” it said. 
That is so, so sad.... F. F. F. This is ridiculous. They should've installed some brushes to clean off the dust. It seems like such an obvious design flaw. 

Or maybe they did and the batteries reached their recharge limit. . “My battery is low and it’s getting dark” . F. F. F. GOOD NIGHT SWEET PRINCE 😭😭😭😭😭. Who's sweatprints?. F. Can we start a petition for Elon Musk to send a retrival robot or something?. F. F. F. F. F. F. [deleted]. F. F. F. F. F. F. Because it's more than a rover.

It's work.

That other humans did.

To achieve something they wanted to achieve.

That rover is a physical manifestation of a very real, and human desire.

If we can't empathise with something that someone wants to achieve, there would be something a bit odd about that I think.

The rover is a connection between what we want to achieve, and what others have.. I am too I'm proud of it❤️. It's because we all had a connection with our little rover. . Don't hold back your tears mate. Let's all cry together.. I don't think there are many out there who aren't, looking at all the posts and stuff. I know robots are just machinery, but there's something sort of...weirdly admirable and endearing about their earnest, tireless pursuit of their programmed objective. And it seems like Opportunity was the very best bot that it could possibly be. Hard not to be rooting for the little fella. . I also feel the same way. Personification of intimate objects is typically human, judging from history.

However, Opportunity could very well be considered a form of life which has died. 

Does it's soul live on in our memories? 

Mathematical Philosophy is *NUTS*. Pretty sure that was showing Curiosity rover which is just fine and will be for a long time. Curiosity is the newest rover on mars and by far the biggest.. because you are a rational human-being that realizes the importance of this rover and that is is mich bigger than all of us. you should feel proud of that.. Finally ran out of power and got "mission complete" status.. Opportunity. Writing binary?

Yeah, that's some pretty fundamental stuff.

It's easy to forget how space is at a premium aboard these things, and the work that needs to be done to squeeze every bit of performance out of them.

He did good.. [deleted]. They typically dramatically under-report the design lifetime so that if something did break it looks less bad to have a 90-day robot fail after 10 days than a 5 or 10 year robot. Nah, when we colonize Mars we can revive all the rovers and let them keep half of the planet.. When we colonize Mars, he’ll be there waiting for us :’(. F. F. Ok what’s the f mean? Just started up on reddit again and I feel like this wasn’t a thing a few years ago. . F. F. F. Well said. There's a world beyond the physical face value of things. People are mourning an inspiring symbol/metaphor that truly became worthy of our respect and admiration, more so than a particular piece of electronics.. Absolutely beautiful. Well said!. Hails fellow metalhead!!. curiosity is powered by nuclear decay and will basically go till the wheels fall off.. Spirit, Opportunity's twin, is still going strong too.. It didn't run out of power per se, as it is solar powered. What happens in those cases is that dust will build up over the panels to a point where they just don't work anymore.

IINM, opportunity got hit by a big duststorm some time ago, which was the final blow for it. It lost contact after that.

o7 little buddy. May it be dug up again one day, by people following the trails it blazed.

Cheers. Thanks. I didnt know there were rovers sent to mars before Curiosity. . I don't understand. The Wikipedia page seems to suggest that the rover lost all contact in june 2018...  

"Opportunitywas able to stay operational for 5352 sols after landing, exceeding its operating plan by 14 years, 294 days (in Earth Time), 55 times its designed lifespan. By June 10, 2018, when contact was permanently lost during a global dust storm, the rover had traveled a distance of 45.16 kilometers (28.06 miles)."  
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opportunity_(rover)  
. [deleted]. Well shit wonder no longer! Yeah you're totally right. My dumb ass would have just sprayed the panels with some industrial non stick and called it a day. (obvioulsy with a thin pane of strong glass as to not damage the panels) but they probs already thought of that.

Shit toss some flex tape clear on that bitch and go. -me . F. [removed]. F. From *Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare* (2014). In the opening scene from the game's second mission, the protagonist Private Jack Mitchell attends the funeral of his best friend who died fighting in South Korea. The player is then asked to "Press F to Pay Respects" if they are playing the game on a PC. Now it's escaped into popular culture.. It's from a Call Of Duty game in which there was a funeral screen and you had to press "F" to pay respect.  
[https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/press-f-to-pay-respects](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/press-f-to-pay-respects). F. \m/. Lamb of god sux . Lost contact on March 22, 2010 after getting stuck in soft sand. Curiosity is now alone.. Wew boy do you have some reading to do.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_rover. Mission control still held out hope that the windy season might clear the panels and it would power up again. It did not. This is just them officially declaring it dead and mission complete.. Correction, he worked on the pathfinder, and I'm fairly certain he told me he dealt with 1s and 0s which I took to meant binary. [deleted]. [deleted]. F. Thanks!. I will never cease to be amused by the fact that a single letter became such a massive (internet) pop culture phenomenon.. Thank you!. Right you are, I stand corrected!. he was using hyperbole. Nobody codes in binary for any reason. Theres simply no point.. ^ another reason i should never work at nasa or anything to do with anything leaving the planet.

Planetary defense..... And i thought space marine sounded cool. Also sorry i can't give a a decent conversation on this subject. Im not good with physics and space.... Stuff- jesus i feel stupid now . haha. F. F. F. f. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. F. ...antasterrible!. F. F. F. o7. F. F. F. F The new 50p in honour of Stephen Hawking. nan. The crown suits him.. I think it would be cool for a country to dedicate all their coins to scientists, mathematicians, artists, authors, and musicians . What is the equation?. I really want one of these but don't live in England. When you get your name on money you know you did something right.. Well since he refused knighthood, he would probably prefer not to be on a royal coin.. Why does the UK always have such great coins???. I'm glad they've used the entropy-version of his equation, as opposed to the temperature-version like on his gravestone. He once said he wanted this equation to be on his gravestone, which I always thought that was a reference to Boltzmann's one grave, where they engraved Boltzmann's entropy equation. Great physicists being remembered by their entropy equations, I think it's beautiful.. I want that. I live in America and have a shelf dedicated to his books, published lectures and other random stuff. How can I get one of these in a nice case? . I think Simon Singh was on the coin panel and discussed this on the Numberphile podcast a few weeks ago.. When someone gets one, send it to me . Wow. That looks nothing like him. How does an American go about getting a few of these bad boys?. I'm surprised to see G and h_bar in the same equation. Are there many more equations containing the two constants?. Hmm, putting a black hole on a coin might not be able he best omen for a currency in an interesting situation. However that is more economics than physics.

Still want one though!. Well, if it's ok with the Hawk.... Thats the queen of england. I need this. . Something about that design makes me uncomfortable.. Dope. . The only 50p I'll be keeping.. How about a pink triangle new 50p coin to honor Turing?. I love this! I named my son Hawking in honour of Stephen and would love to give him one of these coins. Anyone that has one feel like mailing it to me in Canada?. Man, really wanna find this, Ive started collecting 50p recently, found an Isaac Newton one recently.. 50 pounds?

That’s like 60ish bucks?

Which is a coin?

Damn.. Why write Stephen Hawkings name on a coin if you are going to put the queens head on it? 

Foreigners not familiar with English culture or fluent in English are going to think Stephen Hawking is the name of the head on the coin.

Edit: I saw her name on the coin but it's still confusing. . That's awesome!. Get rid of the queen 
. Hey UK, stop putting the queen on your shit. She doesn't do anything. The royal family is a joke tradition, let's cut it out already. . In a couple of weeks a wheelbarrow full of these will only be sufficient to buy one rancid turnip . Downvote 4 the queen . Delete. They didn’t do a great job with his face though. . We do that with our notes, and some 50p coins.. Ha ha ha but seriously you meant generals and politicians right?. The new Swiss bank notes have a science & tech theme:

https://www.snb.ch/en/iabout/cash/series9/design_series9/id/cash_series9_design. Sweden does this with their new bills. Except for Dag Hammarskjöld on the 1000 crowns-note. [The Canadian $5 has the Canadarm2 on it](https://www.bankofcanada.ca/banknotes/bank-note-series/frontiers/5-polymer-note/) and [the $100 has science stuff on it, including insulin, a scientist at a microscope, and DNA](https://www.bankofcanada.ca/banknotes/bank-note-series/frontiers/100-polymer-note/). It's not science figures as the main faces, but it's still fun.. I want my [Deutsche
Mark](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0d/10_DM_Serie4_Vorderseite.jpg)
back!. Some Canadian bank notes have scientific acheivements on them. The $5 bill has the Canadarm and Dextre.. It's an expression for the entropy of a black hole, showing that it's proportional to its area. It's known as the Bekenstein-Hawking formula.. Black hole enthropy. It tells that black hole can be described with only its surface area.. It's also the currency in Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.. Any bank that offers money to exchange may help out!. It is said that all the coins already reserved. No way of getting it even in England.. If you don't mind paying for one in 'mint' condition, I don't think there's a problem: https://www.royalmint.com/our-coins/events/stephen-hawking/. If you PM me your address, I'll send you one at some point.. Currency exchange?. You know u made it when that happens. "You don't want our knighthood?  Fine, we'll just p on you 50 times.". Yeah as an American I'm jealous. I like Canada's glow in the dark aurora coin as well. . I don't know why you are being downvoted. It is indeed rare, because as you may know we still don't have a final theory of quantum gravity, and there are very few situations where gravity and quantum effects are both relevant at the same time. Still you can find this combination in the formulas of black hole thermodynamics (like the one in this coin, or the ones for Hawking radiation), in the definition of Planck units (by construction), and in theories of quantum gravity like string theory. . Hawking temperature formula has both, as well as Boltzmann's constant.. My son is named Hawking and I’m going to start calling him The Hawk 😂. 50 pence, or 66 US cents. 

&#x200B;. [deleted]. [removed]. Right! People who change the world!. As he said. We have Darwin, Adam Smith, Isaac Newton's phrase on our £2 coins. Thought it was a British scientist theme until they dropped this Stephen Hawking one. [deleted]. >Northern Ireland

Not for long, comrade. Tiocfaidh ár lá.. Cheers mate . Also Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, the British Antarctic Territory, and Tristan da Cunha, in case anyone was wondering.. I'll have to check!. Just wait until they hit circulation and fish then out the till. Usually in the first 6 months they're all in perfect condition.. Fam would you be able to send one my way too? . I know it is much to ask but could you do it for me too? . If you 'know' when it happens, you're either a dictator, or a zombie.. ....what?!. Fascinating! thanks for the info!. Your son is lucky to have such tasteful parents! (Not sarcasm.). What happened here? Why are there so many removed comments?. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Stephen Hawking was British.... It would also be cool to commemorate Stokes in the future, too. As i remember, the only other parameter is rotation speed. And surface area is main characteristic of stationary black hole, while rotating black hole has aspherism so it has an additional parameter. Is it so?. /r/me_ira/. You seditious bastard.... It wasn't clear to me if they were ever going to be in circulation or only as a special commerative item.  In any case the comment was from outside the UK.. Sure.. I will take zombie
Weird flex but ok. I had to buy it, it [looks](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/06/27/canada-released-glow-in-the-dark-coin-150-year-anniversary.html) so cool.. Oh damn, I genuinely did not know that and feel like a complete pillock seeing as I'm an undergrad physicist... I just assumed he was American due to his speech machine, don't actually know much about his background 😅😭

I'm just gonna go curl up somewhere looool ffs . name checks out. A 'classical' black hole is characterised by mass, angular momentum and charge (and surface area is a function of those). Still shocked that sub exists. Looking forward to /r/me_isis in 30 years.. The royal mint agrees

>This coin is only available as a commemorative edition – it won’t appear in your change. There is a really good film on Netflix about his life and career. worth a watch when you're feeling sciencey but want to take a break from the textbooks.. Check out “The Theory of Everything” on Netflix
https://www.netflix.com/title/80000644?s=i&trkid=14170286. The voice that became famous was from "Perfect Paul" on a text to speech synthesis device called  [DecTalk](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/DECtalk) which in turn was based on work from MIT. Designed originally as a touchtone controlled  telephone info system. Anyway Hawkins ended up with a portable version on his chair and he liked the voice. The technology was sold on when DEC was broken up but Hawkins continued to get updated hardware and I think he even had rights to the voice as it is associated with him now.. His speech machine was American though, so at least the confusion was based on something 🙂. [deleted]. IIRC, the American accent on his speech machine was his choice, although I don't remember whether it's because it was the default and he liked it, or the speech synthesis just sounded better in American rather than British English.. > undergrad physicist

Lol. Along with all the undergraduate dentists, undergraduate medical doctors, undergraduate prime ministers, undergraduate astronaut, etc. out there.. Totally the same . Yes, but it is ambiguous.  "This" coin could mean each of the special uncirculated coins they sell at a premium "won't appear in your change.". That's a shame. It would have been really cool to see it circulated. It's been on my watchlist for a while, The Theory of Everything. The thing is, there's never any break from the textbooks 😭. The second link is not working, but the first one...

I'm not crying, you are. And...? . Oh wow, which uni does the prime minister course?. That's what I'm saying.. I know the feeling. Well I would if I had stuck to the books more lol. I got my BSc well barely haha but I got my piece of paper. Advice, wanted or not, have a plan for a career afterwards. I struggled finding something other than teaching, further study or gov research. I'm sure you have more of a plan than I did but all the same..... The same one as the undergraduate physicist.. So all of them. Cool facts! Cheers! Keep sharing your immense wisdom!! :) There is currently an effort to have a March for Science in Washington. nan. [deleted]. Not only the US but also the whole entire science community gonna support you. Science is a civic stuff belonging to the nation, but not governmental officials and millitary bosses.. Ugh, the Bohr atom logo. I mean, I know they just need an immediately recognizable symbol, but it's still pretty cliche and archaic.. 480,000+ are currently in the Facebook group, in just 2 days since it formed. Anybody in San Francisco/Bay Area wanna do this?. Can we do this on a Saturday so I don't mss work?. This had better take place in March. "march for science". Hey. 80 years ago, the USA was kindly giving refuge to many scientists who didn't feel good over here in Germany.  

I would guess that we could return that favor.  
Refugees welcome - bring your diplomas, leave your guns behind.!. Much like pro-life women at the women's march, I assume there will be some varying thoughts in this one as well. I'm sure there will be a lot of people adamant about stopping global warming who are also fans of naturopathy and chiropractic.. A march? Trump and his cronies feed off demonstrations of outrage and angst from the intellectual crowd. Don't make him stronger. Other strategies would be more effective 


It breaks my heart to see good movements expend tons of energy and resources on things that are not very effective.  Liberals for the most part have been fed and bred on this "make noise and people will pay attention" red herring that is not only false, but a story DESIGNED to waste energy in the most inefficient manner. 

Look what millions of people protests did pre-Iraq war? Nothing. Did the protests stop the GOP in Wisconsin from ramming through their legislation? NO. Did OWS stop or change the objectionable banking practices? No.

I wish people would realize that a protest does nothing by itself. Look at some protests that WERE effective: 

MLK: led marches and sit-ins that were intended to get people arrested for blacks hanging out with whites SO THAT THEY COULD CHALLENGE THE LAWS IN COURT. So these actions just a means to an end. After being arrested their legal team led by Marshall came in and kicked ass. The strength was in boycotts and legal challenges. That was the success strategy of MLK. Not just the noisemaking. 

Gandhi: his "salt march" was a boycott convincing people that they could break the law which forced them to buy salt at inflated prices. Kids today think that Gandhi just had people sit around and get beaten. NO. He said it was peaceful activities that had economic and legal impacts. Under his direction British revenues were crippled. Dropped some 40%. That is what got stuff done. Not the marches.

But today the public doesn't know what to do when faced with this challenge. They think that crowds makes a difference when all it does is get them put in some database of people for Trump to fire. 

There are better alternatives. Take this guy who instead of holding a sign that was ignored, [buried a bad cop in paperwork](http://www.thestranger.com/seattle/hostile-policing/Content?oid=17445843) and the evidence of this bad cop's activities [got him fired](http://www.king5.com/story/local/2014/09/02/13384714/). 

TLDR; It is activities which drive change directly by economic, legal, or having direct political change (e.g. voter drives, recall petitions, FOIA requests, leaks to the media, etc) which are effective. Not just making noise. Yet the left has been brainwashed to think that making noise by itself without a plan is the best way to make an change. It isn't. . Is this for real science or "alternative" science?. Let's do it!!!!. This is worth asking off of work for. I'm going to try and attend this. . making up my P=NP sign now.. Am I the only one who thinks this is silly? Science isn't some religion or movement, it's facts, having a march for science is almost a debasement of science in itself. 

Rather then having a march for science a march for truth or reason is much more appropriate. Because science isn't the truth in itself, it's a method of separating truths from falsehood. 

Once you start organizing marches for science and making science in to a movement, republicans can just use the good old US vs THEM to claim science as the enemy and as a movement which nobody needs to take seriously.

And I know they're doing this already but, we should be thinking actions in terms of the impact they have rather then letting ourselves be governed by feelings desperately just trying to do something.. [deleted]. I hope this happens. We really need the scientific community to rally. Leave no space for that alternative facts bs.. I hope they have clear goal in mind.. Doesn't the [Reason Rally](http://reasonrally.org/) already serve this purpose?

It would be really cool if everybody got together in nonelection years to do it too, but why not build on a foundation rather than starting from scratch?. Why post this here? Is this subreddit not for physics? Does every sub Reddit have to be anti trump and politicized now?
 Edit: yes downvote for asking questions classic Reddit. . I want one in Seattle !!!! . Keep the momentum going guys! We gotta stay active and united!. I will happily join this! Is there any more information on date?  

Edit:  Whoops, found it! . This is getting fucking stupid . I didn't know there was so many right wing Physicists..... oh wait, there isn't, just right wing propaganda trolls.

Rand:
http://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/perspectives/PE100/PE198/RAND_PE198.pdf

"According to a former paid Russian Internet troll, the trolls are on duty 24 hours a day, in 12-hour shifts, and each has a daily quota of 135 posted comments of at least 200 characters.". This seems silly. Should  we be using science and data to prove the points marching seems to take that idea away. We need scientist from both sides to prove points and create debate not just one side to steer toward a bias and both sides are guilty of that. Inb4 it turns into gender politics . [deleted]. [deleted]. I support that. If this really gains traction and starts having real planning then im sure Toronto and other Canadian cities woukd stand you our American collegues like we did during the women's march. Any canadian here agree?. They will meticulously plan the March so all their steps land at the same time, creating a planned vibration that will match the resonant frequency of nearby buildings and monuments along the route of the March resulting in said structures crumbling to the ground like the walls of Jericho.
Because science.. Get Bill Nye to lead! . I see. Too bad I have a job and have to work for a living.. No point just get better representitives in your state. [deleted]. Good luck, and may I simply say I appreciate the use of proper English in the naming of it, so I hope it succeeds. . [deleted]  
 ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.4477 
 > [What is this?](https://pastebin.com/64GuVi2F/38272). Can we as scientists at least stay objective when the march happens?

What's with the diversity bullshit? It's a science march, not a man science march or white science march. Leave any diversity policies out of this. That's not what science is about. . /r/cringe. Unless you use some variation of one (or more) of the words "women, black, minority, feminism" there won't be much of a following. All the 'progressives' I know will do nothing but tear apart anything that's positive that doesn't use one of those words in the title. I fucking hate it/them, and it does nothing but further divide everyone. . With all honesty, is it really bad for science? I know what trump wants to / thinks he can do but this is not the Dark Ages. I mean,  everyone is in love with science, for the most part.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Well the reality is a little bit different.

If you are scientist you should not have any problems with getting the funds from non-government sources or to be precise, from taxpayers as yes, the only money government has is taxpayers money.

There is no guarantee that science should be funded from taxpayers money. Why would it be??
We had times when science was founded by private companies and it was self funded. Not that USA is even close to a scenario when all science funds from taxpayers would be cut but opposing cuts made by government is wrong.
I mean it's right in a Darwinist sense where people fight for resources to have a better living but it's fundamentally wrong from the taxpayers perspective. 
Very few branches of science should actually be funded with taxpayers money, only those that are crucial for nation and no private company can undertake.
Other wise if you are a scientist and your funds got scraped, instead of shouting out how badly hurt you are, **start making a productive research that is needed by the society**. You will quickly get funding then. 

. Oh yeah, THAT'S just what we need, ANOTHER mob of people walking the streets, dicks firmly in hand.

Marches and protests offer nothing, solve nothing, and waste a lot of time and energy. We need specific policies, specific proposals, and specific solutions that we want implemented to be effective.

This is dumb. Hope it does something.

edit: Wow, this got downvoted to oblivion quick. Couple notes for anyone that bothers reading this.

If you genuinely think that just marches change anything, then you clearly know nothing about politics. Politicians don't care that you won't vote for them *if you already weren't voting for them*. If you care about climate change, then *you were never part of Trump's constituency, so he doesn't care what you think*.

This is a really important thing to understand. I'm not a person that thinks scientists should "stay out of politics" (whatever that means), but it's super important that we acknowledge that doing a bunch of retarded marches won't actually *solve* anything, no matter how good they make us feel.

Science is about being objective, and looking at facts before our feelings so that we can understand what's correct. It's not about going out into the streets because we think that people who have been bribed by the fossil fuel industry, sometimes for decades, will magically change their minds because a bunch of redditors are out on the streets today.

Be serious, people.. I wonder who's behind this, same as all of the other "marches" I'm sure.. Why is half of this thread like if IFLScience and /r/atheism had a baby?

Maybe that's just what happens when a march gets labeled the "March for Science" in stead of the "March for the scientific method". . With all these marches, maybe there's hope for the yearly [March for Life](http://marchforlife.org/) to actually get media coverage, eh?. Politicizing science even further.  Wew.  Stop it guys.. Will they be lighting people's hair on fire? What about trashing businesses and rioting? Why do people find it so hard to accept that they lost and instead of looking like sore losers to the world maybe next time they should get more people to vote. . [deleted]. No, the most important thing is to have clear demands. Just scream loudly and be clear, the public really is mostly on your side. You cant ignore all the countermeasures, but if you dont quit and keep your rhetoric right, they have to listen.. [deleted]. Yes! A thousand times yes! We need like a goal like a transition to the metric system. #MakeItMetric. In other words, you need a well established party.. You guys will probably have lesser problems since the march isn't overly political. The main thing imo is to have a clear,achievable goal and make sure to communicate it well. Even getting the President to cave in on smaller issues is better than none, and I'd suggest keeping the insults at a minimum if you want him to listen.. Occupy was conducted illegally without a permit in places that protesting isn't allowed, like a private park. The key is to simply obtain a permit and follow the guidelines, like the women's march.. I'm worried that it will make the right even more intransigent giving the a circle the wagons mentality and even further lumping in science as a left-thing. That's been the trajectory of the GOP base for a long time.  Perhaps the worst problem of our Idiocracy, is that by the time  we realized that the country had gone full retard, it was too late because they're downright proud of it.. I'd suggest factoring in ways to mitigate irresponsible anarchists trying to stir shit up.. The leadership aspect of this is key. We need clear demands and one or two leaders who can represent us at the March. We need to know who these people are and make sure they aren't super polarizing or extremely flawed in some way that can be easily used to delegitimize them. . im replying again in case you are someone whos ideas matter in this and I anoyed myself for not being clear. By clear demands I mean making a number central to the campaign as in: We want 200billion, American Scientific Research for an American future. Just that. Just focus on that. Unless he specifically counters with a good number dont stop until its law. And yea, its not sjw or w.e. type of negative university stuff, its science, focus on that. Science is what helped the US lead the last century. (and science has always been a focus of fascists empires either way lol). For this to work it need to be funded by George Soros. Lol. Even with all those things how will this be effective?  Women just held the largest march ever, all across the nation and the world, and it wasn't effective at all.  Not a single thing happened because of it, besides exposing the hypocrisy of the left.  Why would this be different?. Who's running it, I can assist with social media efforts.. Can I make an observation here? 

People generally agree that having everything connected to government is inefficient and costs more and creates lobbyists/corruption. Why does anything science related need any kind of money from the government. You shouldnt rely on the government for funding anything as that is NOT the purpose of it. Politics change and apparently are now creating an unstable environment in the science community, so now that we all see how bad the government is for science, whywould anyone want to go back to them begging for laws to be changed and money to be given?

My point is that you run the chance of this happening being lazy and relying on government funding. The government doesnt make money, they take it from other people who do. Cut out the middle man and make your case to the American people. Lots of waste in government. it is probably harder to do that way, but if it is worth it im sure it will happen. If it isnt worth it, then hey, thats the free market and you go bankrupt.. There needs to be a post March agenda that should be discussed and made public during the March. 

I like the idea of getting scientists to run for office. . I'd take it a step further and say it belongs to everybody and nobody. Regardless of where you're from, you have a right to the wealth of knowledge that science provides, but nobody has any right to dictate the spread of that knowledge.. Can we get an electron cloud logo for this man?. But you just said it yourself, the solar system atom is one of the most recognizable symbols of science (and science alone). The only alternative I can think of is an Erlenmeyer flask.. I hear Trump still supports the Plum Pudding model.. Well all science is based on models of reality rather than reality. Yes one could argue that quantum mechanics has made the Bohr model obsolete. 

But the Bohr model makes a clear connection think between physics and chemistry and is a great communication tool to lay people. Do a survey of lay people about what electrons are and go they're distributed in an atom and I bet the Bohr model would have a far greater reach than electron orbitals. . Honestly it all seems like a cringey excuse for people to protest again. Look at the sub, And you'll see threads saying tv engineers should be the speakers, and people trying to figure out what the march's pussyhat will be. Its like the people dont really care about the issue, they just wanna protest because thats the cool thing now. 

I support the idea but the execution is really pushing me away, and im sure many others in the sciences would feel the same way.  . Why what are you talking about good sir?  Harumph to those naysayers, I say! We shall not meet them for coffee at the bidecennial conference of non-quantum perusings on atoms and abject denial of macromolecules and viruses as things that exist.   . Why not a stickfigure being empirical?. There's no way to know the exact path of electrons, so is it not inconceivable that at some instant in time the path lines look like in the image?. Do you have a link for the Facebook group? Thanks!. A vast majority of those people will never march. . If it's filled with the same people who have been marching in previous marches and riots, it's going to be counterproductive. 

Personally, I LOVE the idea of an organized and peaceful push for the advancement of science, because President Trump will most likely be open to a dialogue. 

With that said, a lot of people think marches are all about defiance, and that way of thinking doesn't create a dialogue, and will only cause the people whose attention you're trying to capture to write you and your movement off. 

Now, I must clarify what I meant by "defiant". MLK's marches and sit-ins relied heavily upon defiance, as well as the "women's march", but MLK's were defiant in order to show how white Americans treated them with violence for demanding to be treated like anyone else. Conversely, the "women's march" actually lead to violence, and many og the people involved carried vulgar signs, Madonna talked about wanting to bomb the White House, Ashley Judd had a stream of consciousness rant that was more vulgar than many of the signs, and the main organizer used the limelight to push Sharia Law. 

In addition to using what is essentially a march designed to push equality for women to push her own religious agenda(which, that's fine, but is off topic, and takes away from the theme of telling the president that you want him to treat women with respect. Too many issues for a simple march is a bad thing. Save that for another time.), she pushed one that treats women as inferiors, which undercuts any real message about how the president is awful for his behavior. 


The long and the short of it is, if you have people being vulgar and committing violence, you will accomplish nothing. People should make a march for science to be strictly that, and have everyone NOT bring in personal messages into it. . Not active yet, but this exists: /r/MFSBayArea/. Walking from sf to dc is quite far. Should start early to meetup at the same time in dc.. Already involved with one in LA. Sure you all will have one too. ✊️. Absolutely.. Absolutely!. In the bayarea, would love info on this.. No because this is dumb. Depending on where you work, maybe they would like to get involved? . March 14 please!. I hope it takes place during my spring break. I'll definitely go if it is.. But why only the march. Why does this not have more upvotes?. "February for Science". What if I have a degree in gunology?. If so, they would still be marching under the banner of science and rationality. It's also an opportunity for educating rather than ostracizing.. [deleted]. That's why the organizers must keep their agenda as simple as possible. Adding more and more things that you're marching for doesn't really get the message across. And don't forget people who believe in god/ghosts/miracles/angels will be there too.. Goddamn dude, I wish that this comment was stickied at the top of every single thread about organized protests. Well said.

You saw my comment down below, but I think you put it much better. Well done.. Yes! A peaceful, moderate solution is only possible.. when there is some force on the other side backing it. You seek to compromise when there is a much worse option wanting to be taken. . I think you're underestimating the impact of a well attended demonstration on Trump. [Supposedly Trump was mighty upset at comparisons between his inauguration and the women's march.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-first-days-inside-trumps-white-house-fury-tumult-and-a-reboot/2017/01/23/7ceef1b0-e191-11e6-ba11-63c4b4fb5a63_story.html?utm_term=.f7c8cb309992)

I agree that more direct actions are a good idea as well but a massive demonstration has it's place too. . [deleted]. Except it doesn't . They already debased science. You're late.. > republicans can just use the good old US vs THEM to claim science as the enemy

Where on earth were you for the last 15 years? . The debasement and us versus them has already happened, it's just a matter of who wins now.. >I know they're doing this already

As a scientist of some fashion, wouldn't you agree that there are differing viewpoints to observed data and from that you get different opinions on the cause and effect? Not going to be anymore political on that one, but it's not that wise to call someone with a differing opinion than you as wrong. And vice versa for the parties involved since this isn't mutually exclusive.. Us vs them has been happening. Its important to let them know how important science is to us as a people.  We won't stand for alternative facts. We want evidence based science.  Science is like a religion. Its a way of life. There are rules codes rituals and prophets. Our god is the universe itself. And the anti science movement in this country is a real thing just as real as climate change. But I guess you thing we should just sit back and let them cut any gov spending on climate science?. > Am I the only one who thinks this is silly? ...

No.   Though I don't think the "March for Science" thing is, in itself, an issue since people really like short and meaningless slogans.

The thing that's missing is tangible things that people would be marching for.  These marches need something more constructive that "Wah! We don't like Trump!". [deleted]. Yep

https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/5q7h8c/there_is_currently_an_effort_to_have_a_march_for/dcxipqq/?st=iyel3uhs&sh=0f2a3ae8

https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/5q7h8c/there_is_currently_an_effort_to_have_a_march_for/dcxhws9/?st=iyel3l3j&sh=138f8aa6. We've gotten to a point in time where facts, numbers, and statistics can be debated by politicians.. I see two problems with using that organization:

1. We do not have the luxury of being able to pick a fight with religion in this situation. That's the easiest way to get people fired up against us. Yes, there are ways in which religious organizations threaten science, but this is far larger than those individual issues. 

2. "Reason" makes me think of the publication *Reason*, which is explicitly libertarian. Similarly to point #1, we *really* don't need that political baggage right now, whatever you may personally think of libertarianism.   . Reason Rally isn't going to draw all the religious people that support science. It's a huge group.. Do you know why that failed this past year? It was overrun and appropriated by SJWs who wanted to stop any sort of disagreement. They pushed an agenda beyond just thought and reason, they banned richard Dawkins from attending... they became unreasonable and that is what the Trumpettes hate the most: SJWs. 

It became extremely political and more divisive.

That is not what we need, we need completely apolitical stances that crosses the political parties. We need scientist who are in between conservative and liberal to show that science is not political... it is essentially facts. . Because Trump specifically affects physicists livelihoods now in a major and dramatic way. Has past presidents affect physicists? Yes, obviously. But no past president has issued a gag order on scientific results, including climate change. . I disagree here. They're cutting millions of dollars from nuclear physics, advanced computational science, and renewable energy research. All these are related to physics research. Not to mention he's anti-science in genera (see his statements on climate change and vaccines). Also, the new Secretary of Energy pick wanted to cut the DoE in its entirety and clearly doesn't know what the DoE actually does (he regretted his decision after he was briefed). This affects national labs, a large employer of physicists throughout the country.

It's becoming politicized because it's the GOP that has politicized science for decades by being against climate change and evolution, and instead pushing pseudoscience to the front of national politics. While there are those on the left who hold pseudoscientific views (healing crystals, fearing GMOs, etc.) those ideas are *not* pushed by politicians nor have people who hold those ideas been elected to the Presidency. Trump is an anti-intellectualist at heart; he's against the spirit of science. 

There's also ample reason for groups like lgbt+physicists to be interested in marching, given that open ostracization of scientists and mathematicians for their identity alone is still within living memory (see Alan Turing). . well they can't put it in r/biology because it would be hypocritical.. I think Trump is anti-physics. Because physics is a branch of science, and this is a... WAIT FOR IT! 

... ***MARCH  FOR  SCIENCE***

Not a scientist yourself, clearly, what with all that logic and deduction.. [There is one!](https://www.facebook.com/groups/199043387236334/). Yes! Don't stop the movement! Join the resistance! 

When do we vote on hat color? . There actually are a lot of right-wing physicists, unfortunately.. Trump is limiting the use of science, though, with his new restrictions.. This march is going to get eaten and splintered by whatever group even marginally related to science gets the most hyped about protesting. I could easily see anti-vax, anti-gmo, greenpeace, or sociology students taking over local marches.. Wait, the US still hasn't switched to metric? There's no point organising a march without a standard system of measurement!. Probably mostly stupid yet mildly entertaining T-shirts that say things like "'The good thing about science is that it's true whether or not you believe in it' - NDT.". I'm taking work off because this matters.. My PI has promised us a day off for whenever the march is :). Because physicists / biologists / mathematician, in short scientists as a whole aren't workers, you sir are part of the problem, congrats'.. I think they're just upset that the president of the United States is silencing government scientists and trying to suppress the findings of their studies, and has called what they do illegitimate science.. It is now apparently . His wanting to review all EPA research before it can be published is harmful, yes.. The government controls (and can cut) a lot of funding for research at both universities and national labs. . > in my state its legal to kill it up to 1 day before they come out

Can you elaborate on this?. Isn't the goal to get the government to change its policies? Wouldn't it be a good thing if they lifted gag orders in response to the march?. what is this fucking nonsense?. Trump's biggest successes rely on the perception that he's always winning, that he's well liked, and that he's doing "common sense" things that "real people" want. Large protests counter at least the last two of those things.  

Obviously we need action, but this is one way to make action more likely. . The largest concessions in this country were given to placate civil unrest.  The labor movement, civil rights, the woman's movement of the 60s and 70s, the anti-Vietnam movement...protesting, sit ins, blocking traffic works...Roe v Wade occurred under the anti-abortion Nixon administration via republican appointed SCJs.  . Genuinely assuming you're 15 and your only experience with marches is Occupy Wallstreet.. [deleted]. [deleted]. [Science is a conspiracy!](https://pics.onsizzle.com/everyone-dont-like-is-funded-by-soros-an-alt-right-6737838.png). [deleted]. This. A thousand times this. There is no need for any violence during a march like this. The D.C. police, national guard, and secret service were all fantastic and supportive. Be respectful of them and any and all property and you should be fine. . It's an even worse look to kettle a predominantly female group of protestors, for one.. Generally, the violence occurs when you have a small group of self-styled "anarchists" (and you can tell who they are because they usually dress in black and hide their faces) who start smashing things and then run away.  In some cases, that leads to protesters becoming violent or committing crimes (like looting the shops whose windows were smashed).  In other cases, it just fizzles out.

It has happened a lot in Oakland.  You have a largely peaceful protest, the agitators start smashing stuff and lighting stuff on fire, and then people from the area start looting and they end up getting caught (because the agitators engage in hit and run tactics and don't stay around for the aftermath of their criminal behavior).

Now, that being said, I don't think a bunch of science-lovers are going to start looting Air Jordans, but there is always the potential for one of these groups to try to infiltrate the march.  . The Trump supporters will grab on to anything they can. Even if 5 people out of 3 million act violently or block a free way they will use it to say we are a bunch of cry babies throwing a temper tantrum.. It also had no goals or message. There was no one to fight against it because it stood for nothing at all. Which may or may not be different for a science march.

A general rule of thumb, if no one is getting angry and there is no resistance, no social change is being made. . It will be worse cause it's mostly dudes.. [deleted]. We'll have great signs...all the great signs, the best signs.. Wait, I have no idea what's a joke anymore, but assuming you're serious: what we actually need is to identify the most serious issues contained in the intersection of science and the government in the Trump administration and promote solutions to those. For example (IMO) we shouldn't be censoring outreach of various agencies and we should be pursuing energy-efficient solutions to our energy needs. But transitioning to the metric system surely is *way* down on the list of important things at this time. . \#MarchForMetric

Bonus crazy idea: protest during the month of March.. Just to add to this: I've become obsessed with this and have been trying to do a little research.  Has anyone come across any studies that might go over the cost of converting to the metric temperature measuring system?  Most temperature gauges I use (e.g. phone, car, outside thermometer, heater, etc...)  have the ability to convert temperature readings to the metric system.  That would probably be the simplest solution first.

Next, we would move to road and distance conversion.  Keep cars and manually controlled devices in Imperial Units (i.e. odometer), and then use your GPS to display Metric Units.  1.6 Km=1 mile.  American public becomes used to that.  Congruently, we have new build use metric units while any renovations are allowed a 5 year grandfathered in system to convert to metric.  

5-10 years out; food items, the global medical field, and manufacturing standardizes to the metric system.  This allows greater competition between emerging markets and a less American slanted manufacturing base.

10 years out, automation improves need towards standardization.  Automated automobiles all over the world use the metric system, as less and less individuals become dependent on car ownership.  All new construction and major industrial renovations standardize to the metric system.  

15-20 years out, most new fields are exclusively metric; Imperial Measurements are novelty, but remain exclusively in American Lexicon (i.e. English Stone).. none of this current mess would have happened if our hero lincoln chafee was president. Neil deGrasse Tyson for president.. That's what we thought about evolution and climate change .... It set the discourse blazing, that was both the intent and the effect.. You say it wasn't effective, but realize that you know about this march and it seems like it's a widely known event around the world. Choosing not to remain silent, if anything, got the ball rolling to to speak. At the very least it lets these politicians know that the American people won't remain complacent when infringed upon. 

Edit: Another redditor had commented in more concise wording what I mean to say and I agree.  . I don't know where you get these ideas, but they're not accurate.  Government funded *anything* tends to be more efficient and involve less waste - and fraud - than private sector analogues.  Government entities have close and strict supervision in how funds are disbursed.  That's not alwayd the case with private grants.

Centralization yields economies of scale that multiple private sources don't have.

Government funded science research is definitely preferable to an situation where grants from private sources have to be hunted down for every project.  Besides that, the private sector is mostly incapable of supplying the resources for large projects. . Just give him spherical harmonics.. DNA strand might work too.. Don't use a recognizable symbol. Make it about something modern and important but abstract enough that reporters will have to dig for info and maybe do a story on it. 

Shine the light on all things brought to you by science that the public rarely knows about.. Plum Putin. He probably doesn't support any model... earth,wind,fire, and water, maybe?. I just love how we're already going down this rabbit hole in typical scientists break room fashion. Let's not forget this is politics and they work on a different set of rules.. Yeah, it's kind of a petty gripe.. Some people really like protesting. This doesn't invalidate protests. Some people dress up to watch Star Wars. To me, this seems cringey, but that doesn't change how I feel about star wars. . > Look at the sub, And you'll see threads saying tv engineers should be the speakers, and people trying to figure out what the march's pussyhat will be. 

So  if they did care about the issues how would you expect them to act?. It's not fair to say they have a path that constantly changes - they just never have a path.. https://www.facebook.com/marchforscience/. I beleive you can find it in the /r/marchforscience sub. >Personally, I LOVE the idea of an organized and peaceful push for the advancement of science, because President Trump will most likely be open to a dialogue.

Lol.

You been hiding under a rock?. > Conversely, the "women's march" actually lead to violence, and many og the people involved carried vulgar signs, Madonna talked about wanting to bomb the White House, Ashley Judd had a stream of consciousness rant that was more vulgar than many of the signs, and the main organizer used the limelight to push Sharia Law. 

>In addition to using what is essentially a march designed to push equality for women to push her own religious agenda(which, that's fine, but is off topic, and takes away from the theme of telling the president that you want him to treat women with respect. 



Where the hell are you getting this from? There was not a single arrest, and in fact some of the criticisms of the march was how peaceful it was due to white priveledge. Sharia law, seriously? This march is about the truth and the sovereignty of facts, if you are going to repeat whatever taking points your right wing propaganda outlet is giving you then you are not welcome. 
 . Details. Can get about 10 more to join. . Fucking pi day would be perfect!. But pies. That would be during the week of the APS March Meeting this year. But maybe that would be a good thing, since that guarantees at least one city in which Physicists will be gathering en masse regardless?. Yeah! What about all the other months?. Fair point.  
We might have strong regulations in Germany, but we are strong in producing and can surely fit in some gunologists in R&D.. I think their point was that the banners should be consistent and to the point. The problem with the Women's March for example was that people were walking around in bee costumes to "save the bees". It dilutes the message. 

So of course people who believe in pseudo science are welcome to carry a banner protesting science censorship, but they shouldn't carry a banner claiming that the alien overlord Quartax demands a blood sacrifice.. God, I hope so. The opposition to GMOs and water fluoridation are strong even in intelligent, secular countries like the Nordics.. There are no repeatable, placebo-controlled studies that show spinal manipulation is effective at treating anything. There are cases of people being disabled or killed by chiropractic practitioners. You are better off seeing an orthopedist and physical therapist.. Chiropractic is based on fundamental unscientific principles. You should do some googling. . It's because chiropractic practices cover a wide variety of treatments. Many of them have been shown to be entirely ineffective or sometimes harmful. There are however a notable number of people who have undergone particular kinds of chiropractic treatment virtually the same as physical therapy that claim a reduction in back pain.

Basically the only reason to go to a chiropractor is if they are going to be doing the same stuff a physical therapist would be, as they tend to be cheaper (but also less liable and well trained).. [deleted]. Many practitioners of chiropractic medicine claim that they can cure allergies and various serious or life threatening diseases.

Chiropractic might be good for a nice massage but it's often sold as much more.. And? You can believe in god/ghosts/miracles/angels and still subscribe to the notion than rational scientific thought is important for society, and should not be the meddled with by populist politicians. . > I think you're underestimating the impact of a well attended demonstration on Trump. Supposedly Trump was mighty upset at comparisons between his inauguration and the women's march.

What impact? What did the march do? What did it change? Nothing - in fact it seemed to speed them up. They then signed an executive order banning all funding to all groups in the world that even discuss abortion.  . > but don't seem to be offering a better alternative.

I am offering better alternatives. See what I wrote above. 

> Should environmental scientists who want to participate bring and spread data that the Trump administration has commanded them not to spread? 

There are lots of things

* They could leak the anti-science directives (like has already been done) to the press

* They could get someone to issue periodic FOIA requests that are of the kind of information they'd already want to release.

* They could share information at conferences to colleagues in Canada who could say "NASA/NOAA which is muzzled would have released the following information .... " 
. thatsthejoke.jpg. It does now. . The IFLS crowd is generally scientifically illiterate and likes to run away with whatever vaguely scientific headlines confirm their biases. They embody one of the things that people who distrust the scientific community think of the scientific community. People just repeating stuff because it's cool and popular at the moment.

A march for science should encourage scientific literacy and fight for things like moving 100 level STAT classes from colleges into high schools (it's a hell of a lot more useful than pre-calc) so people will have the tools to differentiate good and bad studies. It should be for passing legislation backed by good and repeated studies. It should not be about pop-science.. > But no past president has issued a gag order on scientific results, including climate change. 

Bush did. 

* [The top climate scientist at NASA says the Bush administration has tried to stop him from speaking out since he gave a lecture last month calling for prompt reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases linked to global warming.](http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/29/science/earth/climate-expert-says-nasa-tried-to-silence-him.html)

* [PEER is asking Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to rescind a Bush administration policy requiring National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and other agency scientists to obtain pre-approval to speak or write, whether on or off-duty, about scientific topics deemed “of official interest”.](http://www.peer.org/news/news-releases/lift-gag-order-muzzling-noaa-scientists.html). > But no past president has issued a gag order on scientific results, including climate change.

Gag order on scientific results? Good thing that's not what happened. 

http://www.peer.org/news/news-releases/obama-gag-order-on-federal-workers-like-those-under-bush.html. Elaborate how does Trump affect the livelihood of physicists.. I hear he violates the laws of thermodynamics of a regular basis. . Ironic that you are making a statement without any evidence in a physics sub isn't it?. Ah assumptions about other people without any sort of proof. You and I both know this is political and has nothing to do with physics so stop deluding yourself please. My BS in physics disagrees with your last point as well I may not have a masters yet but one step at a time.. Next TF2 update. . Phonebank! Match me! . > There actually are a lot of right-wing physicists, unfortunately.

It seems they become more right wing after they retire and start sucking money from the Heritage Foundation's teat. . Yeah I just hate it when people who have devoted their career to scientific research disagree with me on unrelated issues.. Then leave the country. That's what brilliant minds have done in the past under anti-science rulers.. Government science not independent. I trust independent science more because more people criticize them. They have a tough crowd to convince. He wants to expand space program. The global climate change one is not a question of if more of our impact. I don't think our impact is that big based on the ground studies. Back from 1890 to today 30 feet under as only increased by 2 degrees. This would be much greater if we were changing it a lot more. If it was .25 degrees every year from industrial revolution I would agree but our impact is there but to the extent of self destruction in 25-50 years is absurd. We should be proactive but not to the point of scrwing ourselves in the economy. The trump admin needs a chance to see what happens. I want to give it the first 100 days if not year to judge. Then criticize them for their falls and hopefully point out and correct. . [deleted]. Yes, for me at least, I take this [example from history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lysenkoism) as showing how bad that can turn out.. Ah yes, just like how the Harper government here in Canada was supposedly muzzling scientists. Now that Trudeau is PM, where are these muzzled scientists? . Thanks for the info.  I'll go look it up. [deleted]. Have you ever talked to one of Trump's supporters? You must have at some point, they're all over reddit.

What's the one thing that inevitably comes up? "dur hurr, librul tears", right? This exactly plays into that narrative.

Further, it plays into an idea that climate change is "leftist science". This is too close to the other marches that have been happening. If it does anything or gets any attention (doubtful), the only thing it will accomplish is exacerbating the partisan divide on this *incredibly important* issue.. > The largest concessions in this country were given to placate civil unrest. The labor movement, civil rights, the woman's movement of the 60s and 70s, the anti-Vietnam movement...protesting, sit ins, blocking traffic works...Roe v Wade occurred under the anti-abortion Nixon administration via republican appointed SCJs. 

That's too simplistic and it dismisses the hard, hard work that actually *forced* change. When MLK and his team marched it wasn't just "civil unrest" it was blacks marching with whites to protest segregationist laws that made blacks hanging out with whites illegal. When the activists illegally sat in segregated busing seats, or hosted sit-ins at seggregated counters, it was **planned** for them to be arrested and/or charged so that they could fight those laws in court. They were prepared for this with the pre-planning from Thurgood and his team of lawyers they came in and kicked ass. The LEGAL challenges forced the changes. Yet  we hear nothing today other than that "there was unrest and magically stuff happened" NO!  Roe v Wade was also a legal challenge that forced change.  

So what law will you be breaking by having scientists march on Washington and how will you lawyer up to get them out and appeal that to the supreme court? Nothing.

TLDR; It wasn't marching/sit-ins that forced change. It was a partnership with Thurgood Marshall and a planned strategy to engage in a long-term legal fights that forced change. . > As if the Trump administration would pay attention to words alone.

>pay attention to words alone

>words alone

What do you think this march is? I don't see any policy being advocated for, or bills that are coming up for voting. Trump is attempting to politicize all EPA research. This is the counter.. I appreciate the support, but I think I disagree with your premise.

I think it's vital that people who understand the issues are at the core of action being taken regarding that issue. I want economists making decisions about the economy, architects making decisions about architecture, and scientists making decisions about science.

The idea that scientists don't belong in politics is kind of absurd in my opinion, and it's part of what's gotten us to the point we're at.

The general public doesn't even know enough to know that they don't know enough to make decisions about topics. We have a duty to society as educated people.. No, but organizing marches doesn't just happen out of thin air.. Was probably referring to the main DC march. 500K with no arrests is pretty remarkable.. Oh, Rochester. Of the hundred cities with protests, we had to be one of the three with a few idiots, huh?. Yeah something tells me the people marching for science wouldn't be the ones throwing stones through windows and setting cars on fire. Though imagine if that was the case, that people actually rioted when there was a scandal with a paper being retracted or stem cell research outlawed or something like that.. Because police want to stop things before stuff happens. At the Republican convention in 2004 they wrongfully arrested over 600 people (who were later acquitted) for no reason other than that they were afraid something would happen, not because something did happen. . >Be respectful of them and any and all property and you should be fine.

unless it's a bunch of black males....then this theory goes a little south.. First your comment confused me - then I realized in the U.S. 'sciene' is seen as a nerdy boys' thing.  

As a German I imagined academic men and women inviting the public to march together. But in the U.S. it will probably be framed as 'revolt of the nerds, hurrdurr' and maybe even create such a protest base in a self-fulfilling prophecy type of thing. . [deleted]. Yeah, not so many puns please. The Occupy 'maymay' signs were not helping with broad acceptance of the movement or even getting the point across. . Well, the clear choice given your criteria is environmental science (and specifically climate science).  On one hand, the current administration's stance is pretty abysmal on the topic, but there could be backfire in further politicization of the topic.. \#SaveTheSwamps ?  Hmm maybe that won't quite convey the message we want.. Sorry, wasn't trying to be facetious at all, I really like the idea of a transition to the metric system. I feel like that is a simple thing that wouldn't be too difficult for the new administration to swallow, but it would be beneficial for future generations, and future scientists. It may seem basic, but it would at least show a commitment to practicality. . I mean, it really shouldn't be. We are way behind on that, and it's not like making this a goal means something else isn't gonna make the cut. Obviously, given the things you said, climate change is the only thing that you think should be on this list, and you're sort of right, but it's not the only thing that a nation of over 350 million people need to focus on.. Specifically, the [ides of March](https://theidesofmarch.com/)? I'll show myself out now.. ugh. Ok. So we have one awesome slogan. What's next?. Nobody has been infringed upon.  That's why the vast majority of conversation about the march is mocking the march.  All the march did was remind people that women have equal rights in America.. Honestly, I embrace the Bohr atom.  More important than the current understanding is the willingness to accept new evidence.  Bohr and his contemporaries during the frontier of the atomic age are an excellent example of how the scientific method should be practiced.  Form hypothesis, test, reform hypothesis, retest, etc.  The Bohr atom was a step in that process.  Our current model is also just a step in this process, this idea is critical to doing good science, and I think there's no better way to represent that then the Bohr model.. The atom is still a more universal and inclusive symbol.. Then you have the right/left handedness problem (and pedantics!).. He definitely likes models just ones that don't argue!  

Edit: thank you kind stranger! My data always disagrees with me but I always come around.. Sure, so a simple picture (in this case of an atom) is a good idea.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Has that been shown or have we just not been able to detect a path?. **Here's a sneak peek of /r/MarchForScience using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/marchforscience/top/?sort=top&t=all) of all time!**

\#1: [Updated Poster Design!](http://i.imgur.com/TZkLSw5.png) | [250 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/MarchForScience/comments/5q6i1d/updated_poster_design/)  
\#2: [Reposting from the other sub: Republican scientists are vital.](https://np.reddit.com/r/MarchForScience/comments/5q65hj/reposting_from_the_other_sub_republican/)  
\#3: [Trump officials suspend plan to delete EPA climate web pages](http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2017/01/trump-officials-suspend-plan-delete-epa-climate-web-page?utm_source=newsfromscience&utm_medium=facebook-text&utm_campaign=suspendepa-10685) | [28 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/MarchForScience/comments/5q6669/trump_officials_suspend_plan_to_delete_epa/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| [^^Contact ^^me](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| [^^Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| [^^Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/5lveo6/blacklist/). Just look at his post history and you get the gist.

He's worshipping a Russian puppet who froze the funds of EPA scientists, put a gag order on them, and scrubbed all mention of climate change from the WH pages in just the first 3 days of taking office. 

The crazy doctor who has been stripped of his license for malpractice, and who started the entire anti-vaccine craze which has killed thousands of kids from preventable diseases in the past 15 years was prominently invited to his inauguration. Not to mention his retarded anti-vaccine tweets. 

Yeah, this is a man who is rational and open to dialogue alright, lol


 . At what point in time has any demonstrator against him been peaceful? People have been attacking his supporters after they leave the venue since before the RNC. Men, women and teenagers have all been assaulted for going to see him, so can you kindly point to me when someone was peacefully protesting him, or marching against him, and he wasn't open to a dialogue? 

In addition to his supporters being attacked, we've seen property damage, highways getting shut down and freaking riots. THAT is not how you get taken seriously, and to think that behavior should be rewewarded shows a lack of common sense . [Here you go](https://www.facebook.com/events/1199770880137011??ti=ia)!. You can't control what signs people show up to the march with, and it's silly anyway.

You can claim that the Women's March message was diluted but if you take a step back I think the overarching messages - maintaining access to reproductive rights and protesting against a misogynistic president - are clear as day. Nobody is talking about bees; nobody's confused.. [deleted]. > rational scientific thought

and gods/ghosts??? Really?
. So long as the core message isn't diluted, having more people only helps. The IFLS crowd believes a lot of unscientific things, but they also tend to be very willing to listen to scientists on matters like global warming. Their presence will probably do more good than harm.. First link was long, so I think I got the jist of it, but please correct me if I'm wrong. 

Tried to stop =/= gag order on scientific facts. The Bush administration asked for a review process by public affairs staff before contacting the public. It was to be assumed this review process would then end discussion of climate change, but the public affairs staff said this was not the case.

Same story on the second link. In fact, it even states:
>  The order contains very limited exceptions for innocuous statements such as weather updates and answers to purely factual questions about previously approved reports.

Which, under Trump, would be forbidden if it hinted at climate change. . Gag orders can and should be used for specific instances. I would feel uncomfortable if the chair of NASA had a political alignment, for example. However, note the gag order Obama gave was not about scientific facts, but about political alignments. 

Trump perceives the entirety and existence of climate change as well as its cause as a political debate, when it is not. . Reading your link, that's exactly what happened. Obama issued a gag order, but that doesn't change the present circumstance. 

We can reason the Obama administration wanted to control the political messaging for the stimulus. Here the Trump administration wants to bury scientific data. The goals are very different.. Are you serious? Trump has issued a hiring freeze at the Department of Energy (among other agencies) as well as cut funding for nuclear physics research. This presidency is going to be awful for the livelihoods of physicists.. By cutting funding to some physics research.  It's on the front page of this sub.
. Trump = doomsday, DUH ITS [CURRENT YEAR]. As a trump supporter idk why the fuck this is the first thing I see from this sub on /r/all. And 3k upvotes with 60 comments is silly as well. There's so many better things I would've liked to see hit the front page from this sub, that I will now go check out, but what's the point, like you said, of being polarizing in this sub? Especially when physics can branch so many different sectors of the job market, you're promised to have a political divide. And im sure people would rather put aside to talk about physics or talk about observable results in the field. 

Edit: aw yes, giving a reasonable argument as to why this post shouldnt belong here and noticing how it is oddly upvoted without content inside it meanwhile actually interesting physics based discussions get barely anything. The reply you get is 't_d Force' meanwhile I stated I came from /r/all where ide generally like to see a good sub not turn into a megaphone for either political side while its contents suffer the consequences.. People in academia pretend to be so smart but are so blind to political propaganda it's incredible. Progressives have destroyed the education system, absolutely 0 critical thinking.. Jaja, nice!

Where do the explosions come from?  explain that!. I'm not so sure about that, he's pretty good at increasing the level of disorder and chaos. Someone figure out how to harness the awesome power of jokes flying over this guy's head.. It appears you have a subscription to the internet, find your own damn evidence.. Nitpicky a person isn't a scientist until they're actually being paid to actually do science, in the same way I wouldn't call a person with a BS mechanical engineering an engineer unless they're actually working as an engineer. Or, Rick Perry is definitely not a scientist despite majoring in Animal Science. I know other PhD students who won't even consider themselves scientists until they obtain their PhD and get a postdoc position since technically graduate school is still training. 

I say this to save you some time because that specific credential is not gonna be accepted by certain people in the scientific community as proof of being a scientist. I don't think it should affect the larger discussion though. I've talked to science students, non-scientists about the March, and having some scientific credential is by no means a requirement to have an informed opinion about this subject. After all, some of the most beloved science communicators and advocates for science are definitely *not* scientists (Bill Nye is a good example) but that doesn't really diminish the efficacy of their points. So I think being like "you're not even a physicist!" is indeed a tad rude.. Oooh. Can I buy a tee shirt already?  I want to wear it! . Guys!  I'm already here! Got a sign and everything. Going to start walking in circles now just to reserve the route. 

See ya'll when you get here. . On funding for science, and publishing inconvenient conclusions on climate change, it is related issues. . Sorry for not wanting to leave my entire family because a few members of my government are anti-intellectuals. People say that so casually; what ever happened to facing your problems instead of running away scared?. You are missing quite a few letters and words in your response.... Climate change is more than just the temperature of atmosphere. For instance, the acidity of the ocean has increased by 30% (0.1 pH is ~30% because it is logarithmic). We have shown that changes in pH can have devastating impacts on ocean life and ecosystems.  . Let's put up the places that I have the best opportunities to continue research in fields related to what I studied: NREL, Sandia, Argonne, NASA, private universities... maybe I have a chance with stuff related to the DOD, and DOE. All of these are related to the government. There really are not that many companies that have huge independent research departments, because pure science doesn't yield an guaranteed return on your investment, and companies need to make a profit. Getting proposals funded and publications in high end journals is not that easy either. It's a very competitive market, at least in my field.. Responses like this are precisely why such a March a necessary. . Science may not itself be political, but practitioners of science certainly feel the effects of political decisions. If they feel that those decisions are being made on faulty grounds, then it is absolutely proper that they come forward and speak out against those decisions.. > Science abstains from all such petty bullshit

Science does not have the luxury of pretending to be above "petty politics." It's largely government funded, is affected by the government, and is ultimately done in the service of the citizens who pay for it. . What I've seen of this march so far makes is seem more like it's going to be a "March for IFLScience". 

Not seeing a lot of support for "science" as in studies and repetition studies and encouraging legislation based upon good research and encouraging scientific literacy but for for "*Science!*" as in horribly p-hacked studies with cool and trendy headlines and as a word to bash your opponents over the head with.. I agree and im betting 1/2 the people promoting this event are internet trolls.. While I personally agree with your sentiment about abortions "the day before," and I think there's probably no one who "likes" abortion, what do you think is the appropriate way to enforce a ban? Abortions are a medical procedure called a D&C, which has several uses completely separate from abortions. How should the government enforce such a ban? Should they be involved in a woman's medical care, be able to see her records? Should a government agent be in the room during the procedure? After all (I'm sure you're aware of this, just making the point), Roe V. Wade was based on the premise that women have the right to privacy in their medical care.

 What about exceptions? What if a woman is 16 weeks pregnant and discovers her health is at risk? Or if a woman was raped, and doesn't get an abortion until week 13? And if you are in favor of such exceptions past 12 weeks, how do you prove that any given woman is getting an abortion past 12 weeks for a reason you approve of? How does the government determine if a woman was raped before getting an abortion? Does she have to get a conviction in court? File a report? Do you simply take her at her word?. Let's get the [specifics of the law](http://mgaleg.maryland.gov/webmga/frmStatutesText.aspx?article=ghg&section=20-209&ext=html&session=2017RS&tab=subject5) out there:

>(a) In this section, “viable” means that stage when, in the best medical judgment of the attending physician based on the particular facts of the case before the physician, there is a reasonable likelihood of the fetus’s sustained survival outside the womb.

> (b) Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the State may not interfere with the decision of a woman to terminate a pregnancy:

> (1) Before the fetus is viable; or

> (2) At any time during the woman’s pregnancy, if:

> (i) The termination procedure is necessary to protect the life or health of the woman; or

> (ii) The fetus is affected by genetic defect or serious deformity or abnormality.

> (c) The Department may adopt regulations that:

> (1) Are both necessary and the least intrusive method to protect the life or health of the woman; and

> (2) Are not inconsistent with established medical practice.

> (d) The physician is not liable for civil damages or subject to a criminal penalty for a decision to perform an abortion under this section made in good faith and in the physician’s best medical judgment in accordance with accepted standards of medical practice.

In other words, at-will abortions are available up until viability. After viability, abortions are only available in cases where the mother's health is at risk or the fetus is going to produce a child who will suffer every moment of its post-birth life.

As for [notification of parents of a minor](http://mgaleg.maryland.gov/webmga/frmStatutesText.aspx?article=ghg&section=20-103&ext=html&session=2016RS&tab=subject5), it's not a blanket "you don't have to tell the parent/guardian", notification is required unless the minor doesn't live with the parent/guardian, the physician believes the minor to be capable of informed consent, or the physician believes informing the parent/guardian would be harmful to the minor

[refusal to participate in an abortion](http://mgaleg.maryland.gov/webmga/frmStatutesText.aspx?article=ghg&section=20-214&ext=html&session=2017RS&tab=subject5) does not leave a person liable to civil suit unless the refusal results in death or injury to the patient. I'm sick and delirious and read that as one day *after* they'd been born when I asked you for a source.  On rereading that makes *way* more sense.  . I agree that the things you mentioned could potentially be issues, and we need to be careful in our activism. What would you suggest we do to enact better policies, though? All I can think of is to pressure our representatives, which is done most effectively by phone or attending town halls etc, but which I think can be also helped somewhat by marches if they're well executed.  

Marches can also serve as a starting point and attention-grabber for people who want to participate in the more important activism mentioned above. . Nor could they possibly each be organized by independent people who are motivated by sincere concern! There are just three kinds of people, those who agree with me, powerful people who conspire against me, and a couple rubes who are dupped by the conspiracy.. It's called grassroots. Who do you think has this master conspiracy to push for increased science funding and facts?. [deleted]. I hope you're being sarcastic. It's sort of in bad taste.. I thougth [this](https://newrepublic.com/article/140065/myth-well-behaved-womens-march) piece was thought provoking, even if I am a little skeptical of it. . This hyperbole must absolutely stop. Theres been plenty of peaceful mostly white protests violently cracked down on too. 


STOP DIVIDING US WITH UNNEEDED RACISM BULLSHIT. Gee, I wonder why? It couldn't have anything to do with the behavior of the protestors, could it?

For those downvoting, care to explain why? You're scientists, you shouldn't be so averse to drawing conclusions based on observations. The BLM crowds are, generally, much more prone to doing illegal things. Blocking highways, looting, and violence have occurred frequently at those protests which would naturally warrant a more significant police presence and result in more arrests. . That wasn't the implication I intended, but I definitely understand where you're coming from. 

I was more implying that so far, this is an invitation to get hundreds of thousands of mostly men together, feeling passionately about something together, with a clear enemy in front of them. We may imagine them all as career scientists marching rank and file ... but that's just not going to be the case.. [deleted]. We aren't marching to evade Chiang Kai-sheck and the KMT, friend.  It'll be alright.. Asking that we not censor climate data isn't political . Oh for sure, I definitely would like to switch as well. But I do think it actually would be a hard thing to get them to go for--they're really cracking down on government spending, and replacing would cost [on the order of $1 billion](https://www.reddit.com/r/theydidthemath/comments/4oiat5/request_how_much_would_it_actually_cost_for_the/).. Mayhaps, but I fear meatheads everywhere would take it as an affront to their national pride. . I guess I was just noting that if we want to resist the negative effects of a Trump administration, we should focus on the effects that might literally kill people, since many will and people's time is limited. We'll live if we wait to campaign to switch to metric in a more normal administration.. NDT is perfect if we want to absolutely confirm the caricature of scientists that people skeptical of the scientific community believe.. Comprehensive ideological platform attractive to major voter stratas?. Like, a minute with Google and an open mind.... The atom is exclusionary to those of us whose constituent particles obey Bose-Einstein statistics. . That's fair, you can't exclude all the people who aren't privileged enough to have DNA.. I absolutely agree with you. I was just commenting on the somewhat humorous aspect of the discussion.. I think you might be surprised. Consider the effect that being in a protest has on a participant. If you talk to veterans of the nonviolent civil rights marches of the 1960s, or simply go to http://www.crmvet.org/vet/vethome.htm and read their statements, you will see that over and over they speak of the movement changing them, not simply of the change they made in America. 

They will come, and then (as you say) they will go home. But they will go home transformed and empowered and part of something. . idk, I think you're underestimating how pissed off a lot of scientists are. >I've worked on the hill for the past 7 years or so on science policy issues

If you don't mind me asking, what do you do? What's your background? This is something that I've been interested in for a while.. Why are you unwilling to lend your expertise to the march's organizers? 

They're still very early in the planning stages, and your understanding of the intersection between science and government could be invaluable. . Maybe I'm not understanding what the point of this march is, but isn't all that pretty irrelevant? We want there to NOT be a hiring freeze on every branch of the executive. We want NASA funding to NOT get cut, not to increase it. We want Trump's "2 for 1" rule to NOT be implemented. We want this [tweet](https://twitter.com/AP/status/824374557893083146) to NOT exist. etc. 

You don't need to figure out the financial details of keeping things as they are, you just keep them as they are.

Having a callmark to your event is also every bit as important as anything you said. If everyone who's actually affiliated with the march is in lab coats, the fake news guys can't circulate pictures from the Ferguson riots and say "See? They're just unruly anarchists". The whole point of this is to gain public support. Once you have public support, things tend to happen.. I'm a big Trump supporter, but how does that take away from the validity of my statement? It doesn't, and by bringing up my bias, you've shown yourself to be even more biased, and an absolute idealogue. 

I said that I actually support the idea of marching peacefully, to get the president to listen to the people. You, on the other hand, are just throwing out things that piss you off about him, while avoiding the point that I made: that a respectful show of defiance will work, but attacking people, destroying property, vulgar displays, and off topic rants are not only guaranteed to work, it's counter-productive to what you are trying to accomplish. 

You want to be considered smart for what you believe in, but your post had nothing to do with the point I was making, and if you continue to ignore the point that I made, you'll only look smart to people who hate Trump above the desire to have a rational discussion . The fact that 3 million people marched in protest without a single arrest is evidence that the protesters have been peaceful. . Damn, son. You're so fucking blind AND you've lost your other senses.. Thank you . I'm confused, I have been told by multiple people that attended the womans march that is not what it was about.. [deleted]. You can believe in something without believing there's scientific justification for it and acknowledge that it's faith. There's a large difference between believing you can use science to prove God exists or that religion overrules scientific evidence, vs. believing there's no scientific evidence for it either way since the existence of god is unfalsifiable, but you choose to believe in a god anyways.

Some of the most brilliant scientists in history were religious after all and didn't let religion affect their work. I'm sure there are plenty of things atheistic scientists believe in without having scientific evidence for them anyways. . Claiming it is in any way burying scientific data is completely detached from reality. It's saying don't go to the press (or social media) under the 'company name' (US) and spout political positions. There is actually already federal law that says this. The GAG order was handed down by the head of the EPA for them to comply. I mean both scientific sectors trump wanted cut have a private industry so I think you might be blowing this out of proportion. He did not state he was getting rid of university grants which would be real cause for concern . How come you guys are able to say "Oh, just go take your skills elsewhere!" but a large amount of people having been telling rural America do the exact damn thing, and they screech "This is why Trump won!!!"?. T_D Trolls out in force.. > absolutely 0 critical thinking.

yup, that's where you are.. Mate that's not how claims work it is the claimants job to provide the evidence..... sci·en·tist
ˈsīən(t)əst/
noun
a person who is studying or has expert knowledge of one or more of the natural or physical sciences.. If it's a just a few members of the government and not a concern, then why are you complaining?

'Facing your problems/running away from them' are analogies, you can't switch between their analogical and literal meanings. Facing your problem in this case would be leaving the country. Staying in the country is ignoring the problem.

And you are saying staying with your family is more important than leaving an anti-scientific country. So be it, no reason to complain about the outcome when you willingly made the decision. . Sorry on phone plus fat fingers. . That's part of the currents. They change as the planet changes. Now the question of are we speeding it up. Idk I don't think we are but I'd rather be proactive then reactive. Take small steps and make the big ones when we need to. Tesla grants for research. Independent work. I know scientists that self fund they make it work at least in geology and soil science. How so? . Once science agreed that it's a human life in there, all of your questions become irrelevant, because that human life has rights to live too.


There are many, easily available, cheap ways to not get pregnant, (cut STD's too as a bonus), USE THEM, and in the horrible but very rare that a woman is ovulating while a disgusting person is raping her, she should get medical attention, and while she is getting tested for STD's, injuries etc she can be treated with Plan B or other very effective  contraceptives.


. Read 2 i again, notice how it does not say "physical health ", it includes MENTAL health too, this means that the mother can say anything from "Giving birth will give me psychological issues" to "I'm not mentally prepared to give birth" and can get a termination. 


Its all down to interpretation, and the victim is ALWAYS the child.


Sorry, but science tells us that it's an independent human life, this is a FACT. Science does not care about your feeling.. Well partial birth abortion is legal too... Well, 50 of the organizers of the womens march had connections to Soros and/or the open borders foundation.. D.C is used to peaceful protests. They barely even arrest those on the 420 March anymore (when people smoke weed outside the captial building on the fourth of July). Not to mention they know that no one is going to try shit. There's like ten different law enforcement divisions in DC. If you had any sort of plan, they'd find you before you could step foot off the metro. 

You Wana riot and get the police pissed? Have a protest in Baltimore. . no i'm serious...i think i just wasn't clear enough. i've been to very peaceful Black lives matter protest where rubber bullets and other physical acts were used against a crowd that was basically standing exactly where the police partitioned. It seems protest involving Black people always end in violence but from my perspective it was 100% started by the law enforcers and not the protesters. Also as a white male when arrest seemed to start happening i could walk out and nobody even glanced at me to cuff me or anything. i was immune to it. IT kind of turns my stomach thinking about it. But that's just my experience in my corner of the world. I certainly don't want to speak for the entire country and all law enforcement but their does seem to be a pattern. . Bro-nian motion:  Black male particles en masse, moving about randomly.

source: bad taste but not actually offensive physics cracks. thank you for this article. This is exactly what i thought after watching the Womans march. Not a single arrest...now honestly ask yourself. If it was 500,000 black men doing the same thing, would there be arrest?. but that's not the subject of this conversation is it? Where they mostly white males? What was their age group? I never said it doesn't happen. All you're doing is adding anger to this conversation. Did you have anything real to say?. in my experience its more the behavior of the law enforcement.. > this is an invitation to get hundreds of thousands of men together 

You're begging the question on this point. . Just keep pretending it wasn't independents put off by Clinton that turned the tide. . It shouldn't have been political, but unfortunately it is.. Uh huh, everything is up for grabs in politics. One of the most polarizing question asked was "do you trust scientists". Somehow, the role of scientists has become a piece in the political games. Anything we do and anything from us is going to be "political" to these people. . Lol what do you morons think political means?. To put the cost in other units for this administration: switching to metric would cost on the order of 40 milliBorderWalls. Maybe we could make the French pay for it.. I'm not sure how powerful the hand tool lobby is but I'm sure they'd want to continue selling everyone two sets of tools for everything. . I suppose this all depends on how the switch is done; perhaps by federal government mandating all new equipment specifications metricated within some time frame, or something like that. Most modern CNC equipment are already metricated and the inch is already a metric derivative, so that part won't be an issue.

However, have you ever tried purchasing a nominal 55mm machine bolt? Or a nominal 50mm-thick steel plate? Or, metric lumber? And would NEMA need to metricate their entire standard and motor manufacturers will soon need to adapt?

I think $1 billion total economic cost, even in the short term, seems unbelievably optimistic to me.

I think we should make the change because I just personally prefer it and I think it offers many soft practical and cultural benefits, but they probably won't outweigh the costs on paper. I think we should be honest about the cost estimates, but intentionally ignore them in favor of the soft benefits.. I don't have all the answers, but I agree with one reply, let's just start to make the transition. . That really doesn't seem so bad considering spending elsewhere.. With people like Elon musk on the transition team, I would say things aren't as bad as people think they are. Yes, climate change is a big issue, but what I meant to point out by saying that we are a country of over 350 million people, it doesn't take 350 million people to be working toward the same thing. 

Climate change is probably the biggest scientific issue today, but that doesn't mean we should just push every other lesser issue aside until a next presidency, that's sort of absurd.. oh, you are being serious, aren't you? I am not sure a comprehensive 'ideological platform' is possible, not with any degree of cohesiveness. Science is not a political party, and I think that *is* the message.. I think politicians are more likely to listen to humans than particle condensates, sorry. :(. :P

As a *symbol* though it includes more sciences than a DNA strand or an Erlenmeyer flask would. Plus it looks freaking cool.. No appreciation for the gluons in the atom?. The fuck you talking about, where did I mention the need for violence or attacking people?. You're referring to the women's march, right? If so, this goes back to what I was saying about not being vulgar, and to have a cogent argument for their message. 

The whole reason they were "protesting" the president was because of how casual he was in saying "grab them by the p****", yet here we have people dressed up as vaginas, it doesn't make sense to anyone who's not on board with protesting/marching against him to begin with, and THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO YOU WANT TO ATTRACT TO YOUR CAUSE. 

And again, look at the speakers, Ashley Judd was ranting about having a period, Madonna said she wanted to blow up the White House and the organizer was pushing Sharia law. No one is talking about how positive the march was, which is the point. 

Also, over 200 people were arrested, a man punched a woman because she was conservative [and other women helped him get away with it](https://youtu.be/S1eb9vQ1vAk) and the police had to [stop rioters](https://youtu.be/dO2H_yT9A0U), so your statement is inaccurate. 

Maybe at some of the other locations, everything was peaceful, and they had a positive message, but not in Vancouver and ESPECIALLY in DC, where the main organizers were. 

This was NOT a successful protest, because violence DID occur, and the celebrity speakers did NOT stay on point. 

Like I said earlier, I'm all in favor of a march to promote science, but the women's march achieved nothing, only spoke to those who already are against Trump, and pushed everyone else away from their cause . You clearly haven't been paying attention, as Trump supporters were targeted in San Jose, for violent attacks. [Men, women and teenagers. The rioters attacked them all](https://youtu.be/LMx9AenaAdE). 

They were also attacked [attacked in Richmond. ](https://youtu.be/9T4J1EQ-Js8)

The left also has a bad track record of destruction of property that I don't even need to point out, because it happened after the election, and the inauguration. 

You can downvote me, and you can argue that Trump has bad policies (since it's all subjective at this point), but to deny that the left has continually attacked Trump supporters, and that they've been destructive when they don't get their way, is to be in complete denial of reality. 

The left has demonstrated just who are the violent ones on the political spectrum, and it ain't even close. 

Bringing it all back to my original point, if they had been demonstrating peacefully and respectful from the get go, Trump would be more open to the left. 

Also, I notice too many people on the left justifying bad behavior, because "of Trump's words". That is absolutely incorrect, and even if it were, his words have never been bad enough for such a vitriolic response . What do they say it was about?. [deleted]. >Claiming it is in any way burying scientific data is completely detached from reality.

[Sure about that?](http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-epa-climatechange-idUSKBN15906G). Belief in global warming is not a poltiical stance, it's a scientific one.. There may be a private industry, but think about the people whose lives have been affected by the hiring freezes or grant cuts. Just because there's a private industry doesn't mean those people don't have problems. The cuts proposed in the Heritage Foundation budget book will cut university funding and severely cut national labs budgets. The cuts are far more wide ranging than just nuclear physics and scientific computing. Energy, condensed matter, fusion, HEP, bioscience, climate science will see reductions in funding. There is no alternative in the private sector for much of this research.. more I read TD posts on reddit, dumber I become   . I don't bother with Trump people. They can't accept a time-stamped photograph as evidence. There is no point to try to reach someone covering their eyes.

EDIT: general courtesy is to not down vote someone when you respond.. Damn. That isn't part of the currents...That is just simple science, the carbon cycle. . I'm supposed to work multiple jobs so that I can have enough money to get for a lab and computing facilities so that I can do research in all the spare time outside of the multiple jobs to pay for the lab? I really don't know any scientists that are that personally loaded. My point was that while there are some small independent research departments at companies, and some amount of funding, the largest sector is funded by the government. While some people may be motivated enough to do it on their own, slashing government funding will absolutely put a damper on new advances. . > I don't *think* our impact is that big based on the ground studies.

what you think is irrelevant. The scientific community has reached consensus on the topic that anthropogenic climate change is real, significant, and requiring immediate action. raising awareness of the of why accepting scientific consensus is important. 

> Back from 1890 to today 30 feet under as only increased by 2 degrees. 

Once again, the scientific community agrees that 2 degrees is significant.

> This would be much greater if we were changing it a lot more.

do you have a source on this? because once again, the community has reached consensus.

> If it was .25 degrees every year from industrial revolution I would agree but our impact is there but to the extent of self destruction in 25-50 years is absurd.

You're making up numbers that YOU consider to be absurd and would convince you that humans are the cause and danger is real. but once again. THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY HAVE DETERMINED OTHERWISE BASED ON ACTUALLY DATA.

>We should be proactive but not to the point of scrwing ourselves in the economy. 

being at the frontiers and blazing the trail for new technologies  has, historically, been quite good for the economies of those nations that choose to do so.

> The trump admin needs a chance to see what happens.

fucking christ im sick of hearing this. chance for what? to see if he fucks up even more? he has given ZERO indication that he is willing to accept reality. what makes you of the opinion that he will be make reasonable decisions when he cannot even understand basic verifiable facts.

> I want to give it the first 100 days if not year to judge.

and allow him to gut even more from the sciences? and continue to spout his ignorance? no thanks. you'd don't get a grace period on this. peoples jobs, lives, and the planet itself are in-fact at stake.

A public that understands must understand the importance of science. its incredibly detrimental when well regarded fact based on decades of experiment and peer review are thrown out as topics that are somehow still up for debate. The public must understand what we gain from having an academically strong society and what we lose without it. 
. So you do not agree with exceptions for rape, incest or life of the mother? And I agree that sex education needs to be improved, but while that will (and has) reduce unwanted pregnancy, it will never eliminate it entirely. Such women still have the right to privacy, something you completely ignored in your reply, which is the legal basis of Roe V. Wade.. What about people with eclampsia where the woman's body basically rejects the pregnancy? In severe cases with no abortion accessible, both the woman and unborn child would be sentenced to death. You'd be killing two human lives for your values.. > Once science agreed that it's a human life in there, all of your questions become irrelevant, because that human life has rights to live too.

So you prefer the nanny state? Where government overrides the rights of competent parents working with licensed and competent doctors?

The Nanny State: When the government thinks is knows better than competent people with medical power of attorney working with a competent doctor. Remember [Terry Schiavo](http://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/01/jeb-bush-terri-schiavo-114730)? A **provably** blind, essentially brain dead person who's husband (competent, had power of medical attorney) and his doctors (competent) were stopped from giving her a peaceful end-of-existence - because as the GOP had house/senate/presidency as the GOP with Bush called an emergency session and stopped the her husband and doctors. Nanny state. 

Sometimes loved ones have to make tough choices, not just when it comes to fetuses. 

Sometimes the chemo didn't work.

Sometimes the accident was too damaging to the brain.

Sometimes life support is failing and there is no viability outside of that environment. 

Who else but the loved ones in consultation with the doctor should make that choice? There is no age limit on heartbreaking decisions and that's true before and after birth.

Government has **one role only** in this realm. To make sure that the people making the decision are working with medical expert(s) who is(are) well trained. Period. Repeatedly we see this push to turn our country into a **nanny state**, crawling into the most personal decisions one can make about a loved one. 

You may not like abortion, but a nanny-state government isn't the solution to that problem. It IS the problem. 
. https://www.google.com/amp/amp.livescience.com/54774-fetal-pain-anesthesia.html. You seem to be under the impression that a doctor cannot tell if someone's mental health will be significantly affected.. If you've seen Mad Men, I always think of this early episode where Don is with a bunch of bohemian artist types doing drugs and the police show up, first outside and then for another apartment in the building. Don eventually gets fed up and decides he's leaving. One of the other people says, "Hey man, you can't go out there." To which Don responds, "No, *you* can't go put there." And then he walks into the hallway and this cop gives him a "good evening, sir" while about to bust down the door to an adjacent apartment. . Oh haha thanks for clarifying. I guess there's an example of bias in action.. Can you provide a news link to this?. > would there be arrest?

No, there'd be a *massacre*, and the media would label it a "riot," and suburban middle-class folks would cheer on the police force in restoring law and order and clearing the streets so they can get to their hot yoga classes on time.. Do you even hear yourself? We were not discussing black males. You brought it up in an attempt to suggest protesting peacefully works unless you're black. 



Hyperbole bullshit . Sure man. Not like any other historic marches just happened.. Ooh, I'll try! Just keep pretending it was one and only one reason and that reason is obvious!. Free speech is at the very beginning of our constitution . I think you're off by a few orders of magnitude.. It seemed low to me as well.. All it really takes is switching some letters around on new textbooks. Start teaching kids to use the other side of the ruler. Their generation can switch because everyone will be used to it.. Every joke is partly a joke. Certainly a bold theory.. This. I really don't understand the pedantics who say the model is outdated. Yeah no shit, but we are not doing science lecturing here, its just an easily recognisable symbol. . Shit.. Dude, you need to pay attention to the context. I don't mean that to be mean or condescending, and if I come across that way, I apologize.

 Anyhoo, I was criticizing you for dismissing the point I made, by pointing to my post history. 

Edit: All right, a "non political" subreddit that allows anti-Trump sentiments, but not the criticism of another march, in direct relation to the topic at hand (I was merely saying what they should avoid, to make this a successful march). Just because anti-Trump sentiments are the norm on reddit, doesn't mean it's cool to push out people who have a favorable view on him, ESPECIALLY when they're not even pushing a pro-Trump agenda. I was giving my opinion on how to make this "science march" effective, and because I happen to be pro Trump, the mods are slowing down my ability to post, likely due to reports. 

Especially since the mods are probably close to banning me over what should be a normal conversation, it shows how myopic this place's readers are, and makes anyone with a neutral or opposite view less likely to want to engage in debate/conversation, when it's not debate/conversation many of you want, it's someone agreeing with you . Yes, we are talking about the Women's March on January 21st, which had zero arrests, not the Disrupt J20 inauguration day protests/riots by self-described anarchists which had the 200 arrests as you said. Get them straight, they had very different messages and intentions.  . Lol. 

I'm not going to waste my time attempting to have a rationale discussion with someone who has clearly lost all reason and has adopted a fictitious narrative.. "Woman's equality". Specifically stated that there was not a political agenda, and absolutely no meantion of reproductive rights. There are a lot of groups pretending that the march was about their causes, specifically anti-trump and femenist extremists., but no one signed up or agreed on anything. A bunch of people went outside to feel important, that's essentially it. . If they're good enough they will get hired without many problems.. Where did you get this information from if you don't mind me asking?. So I ask for evidence and you say I won't provide it that's really just fantastic. Is it possibly because.... you don't have said evidence?. Yes sorry about that slipped my mind on that. Slashing bloated budgets. I work the for the military the contractors are paid way too much and don't follow the rules. They can't be fired easily or displined when late. I see no problem with cutting the bloated budget. I've seen government waste first hand. I love science. I'm a scientist myself but sometimes max budgets make you forget it's not a bottomless pit of money. But I agree with you on the government research should not be cut but the budget needs to balanced and accountable before we keep throwing money at it.. I'm pro-life, of course of course the doctors should do the best option to save the mother, this cases are very very very rare. . I've never seen that show but that is exactly how i started to feel after going to a few of these marches.. everything and everyone is bias. To argue bias as a reason to dismiss is to ignore the experience of others and breeds ignorance.. i probably could if i googled literally any black lives matter march. But i honestly don't want to anymore. I was just giving how i felt about my experience there. In any protest there are multiple groups. Non-violent and violent. They are portioned off as such. The police know where each group is located and send their men/women to the more urgent areas (as to stop anything from happening before it starts if possible.) I always go to where the peaceful protesters are as i don't want to be a part of any violence. The media doesn't show you this part. They just throw a headline at you and a little blurb below it. That doesn't even tell you 1% of what happened and i've seen it first hand. So i don't bother with news clips as they tend to upset me. I no longer march as i don't see it as a solution either. nobody really cares and nothing is going to change. The people in power like it up there and that's that. What i experienced was that the violent protests, who were several blocks away, started some shit as they do, i believe more aren't even real protesters just trouble makers but some are just angry and tired. that gave the police a reason to act on the non-violent protesters. It's sad as some seemed to relish the idea that they get to see some action even if against non-violent people. It bothers me to my core. Some of the people i encountered were awesome and others...not so much. It has effected me emotionally to the point where reddit is just about the only website i visit. All other social media is gone. The divide is too far and i no longer have the energy to fight. Hopefully we'll be ok in the end.. heh, yeah...you get what i'm putting down.. Hyperbole is what you mentioned...is that the subject? if you think there are white people being affected negatively in protest that's fine and true. I was giving one opinion..you were starting an argument and letting emotions get the best of you. Does this conversation make you uncomfortable? If so then good. These are supposed to be uncomfortable conversations. But we need to have them. Bring your experiences and your thoughts but not your anger. What i said was 100% true and nowhere in it did it say this never happens to white people. There's a problem in this world and i'm ok talking about it whether i'm wrong or right. If i'm wrong i still need to bring it to the table to find the answers. i will not stop and i'm not dividing. Don't let your fear and anger let you miss the message. . Anything in the constitution is inherently political.. $25 billion for the wall (low estimate) -> 1 bil USD * (1 wall / 25 bil USD) = 0.040 walls. I don't know about you, but I definitely learned the metric system in elementary school, and used it extensively in high school chem and physics. I don't think the school part is the important part, the important part is the day-to-day stuff. As long as my phone gives me the distance to starbucks in miles I'm going to keep using the freedom units (I'm sure I can change that specific example, but you get the idea).. And replacing every road sign in America. And replacing every manual in America. And basically spending billions redoing our infrastructure for minimal benefit. . I like this. . Agreed. If we're going to go full-on pedantic, we'd have to *rename* atoms altogether since it's based on the Greek *atomos*, meaning *indivisible*.

Since we've learned how to split the atom, and that it can be divided into smaller parts, that name isn't really appropriate anymore.

But it's still used and accepted for historical reasons. The same can be said about the Bohr symbol of the atom.. [deleted]. You clearly have nothing to say. I came into this topic actually agreeing with those that would march for science, and offered advice so that they  don't repeat the mistakes of previous demonstrations, so yeah, I've definitely kept an open mind. 

With that, you come across as intellectually lazy for saying what you just did. I would GLADLY hear opposing view points, but so far, have only heard tired talking points, which is not a good thing. 


Edit: I'm done with this  sub. People in this sub are upset that I'm a Trump supporter, and the mods are cracking down on me when all I've done is AGREE with the idea of marching peacefully for science, while explaining why other marches were ineffective. I'm not the one needlessly name calling, and this is a fine example of redditors only wanting an echo chamber, because so many can't handle opposing view points. 

You're surprised that the GOP won the presidency, senate and house, as well as a majority of state legislatures and governorships, and rather than take an honest look at what went wrong, you say that President Trump won because of racists and sexists, because that's easier to do. It shows how out of touch with the political reality is, and I would pity you if you weren't so hostile to a discussion in which you hear opposing view points. 

Again, I didn't even promote President Trump here, in fact, I promoted making a RESPECTFUL political statement to get his attention, and that upset some of you to the point where you repeat the worst things said about the president and his supporters, WITHOUT engaging in any honest conversation. This is downright pathetic, and more proof towards the conservative accusation that the left is not interested in free speech, because that means they'd have to hear opposing opinions. . If someone went to that and claimed it wasn't political, then I wouldn't really listen to them about the march. It was specifically timed to follow Inauguration Day and many, if not most, speeches and signs targeted the misogynistic character of Trump and his administration's policies. Women's equality is an explicitly political stance to take.

You don't "sign up" to go to a march - you just show up. That's why claims that every single sign or person has to be there for a single or a few narrowly defined stances just don't make any sense. The organizers, however, were fairly clear on the overarching mission. It will be very similar to the March for Science. The end result is actually a fairly cohesive message - but whenever anybody is skeptical of the marches or the message, this is always the argument brought up against it. I think it's fairly silly. As long as humans engage in collective actions - from neighborhood associations, to companies, to government itself - attempting to pin a single message on a group of people is just a pointless exercise. You can have a cohesive message and a plurality of opinions. . Of course, how could I be so silly. Of course all these private industries will be willing to take on as many applicants as they get.. http://budgetbook.heritage.org

This is what the Trump administration is using as guide for crafting a budget. Of course, all budgets must be approved by Congress so it might be DOA but there are many in Congress sympathetic to such a budget.. Just google it dude his administration is planning to cut DOE funding, and most of the DOE is for nuclear physics.

That guys being a douche but hes right literally google it this isnt a peer reviewed microcosm of actual science hes just a guy telling you to google "trump cutting doe funding". Ahh, I see. Academia is pretty different from the military. Pay is fairly low for the education and amount of hours worked, and I almost always work evenings and weekends to try to get results. I'm on hold right now for working at a national lab this summer because of funding uncertainty: the department wants me, but money and supercomputer time are tight.. [deleted]. You think the MSM is pushing violent propaganda towards BLM?. You're a moron. For real. . But the statement of facts should not be considered inherently political.

. Whoops. I should have my morning coffee before I make comments in this sub.. > every road sign in America

[Not quite all of them!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metrication_in_the_United_States#Transportation). Gradually. As new signs need replaced, we put in updated signs. As new manuals are printed, we change measurements.

I'm not for a switch but I think it could be done if handled correctly. Then again, I'm no expert.. It's an old RUssian college (may be international, no clue) saying, a reversal of another old Russian saying: "every joke has a grain of truth". Well, let's call them toms.. It's really not worth your time arguing with a fool. Check his post history, you're not going to change his mind.. You're speaking strictly from talking points, and you are only going off of what you hear others say. The fact that you felt your response to what I was saying, shows that you are everything wrong with American politics, as you are close minded, and unwilling to hear other view points. So unwilling, in fact, that you come up with a non sequitur of a reply, for what I said. 

Finally, it's people like yourself that are the reason the left is so out of touch, because while Trump supporters can understand at least understand why liberals voted for Hillary, liberals actually convinced themselves that the only reason anyone voted for President Trump is because they are racist, sexist or some other negative attribute, which says a lot about you, that you have to convince yourself of a lie to comfort yourself against reality. 


The fact is, Trump didn't just win, the GOP won majorities in both houses of congress, and a majority of state legislatures and governorships. This was an unprecedented shellacking of a candidate whose  two main platforms were "I'm a woman" and "I'm not the other guy", and there's no amount of arguing that can change that fact. 

I don't feel bad about my decision at all, and again, you were so caught up in your own narrative, that you wrote a reply which adds nothing of substance, that you didn't see that my posting in this thread, on this topic, was actually support and advice for people who would march for science, to send a positive message. 

As this and other replies have shown, as well as the riots, [dozens of fake hate crimes](http://www.fakehatecrimes.org/), and the marches against him that had no cohesive direction/leadership have shown, far too many on the left justify really bad behavior from their side, and have absolutely no interest in civil discourse. 

That's sad, because I truly thought you guys would have realized Hillary's "deplorables" comment was a mistake not to be replayed, but you guys seem to only do things that will only get President Trump more support, and seeing how the seats up for grabs in 2 years, are primarily of democrats with shaky numbers, you may end up giving him a 60+ seat majority in the senate, and carte blanche to proceed with his agenda, and *that* is a good thing. 


. Lol. You're a moron. Goodbye.. "You can claim that the Women's March message was diluted but if you take a step back I think the overarching messages..."

"You don't "sign up" to go to a march - you just show up. That's why claims that every single sign or person has to be there for a single or a few narrowly defined stances just don't make any sense..."

You are contradicting yourself.

As for the organizers, "This is an INCLUSIVE march, and EVERYONE who supports women's rights are welcome".. Especially for pure and theoretical physics. Those are the fields that private industry loves to throw money at. . Yes and that's really horrible, thankfully we've come far and it's not treatable with BP medication, in the cases that are not of course the baby has to extracted, but I wouldn't call that an abortion.



No one in the pro-life movement wants the death of anyone, that's the point.. i think ratings matter...and headlines get clicks. NO ONE and i mean NO ONE in power really cares. thats what i think.. ok that's fine. i'm unaffected by you insults and you have no real points or facts to make so this conversation (or lack there of) is done on my end.. There is literally no point. None. . Even better. . Are they the ones getting affected? We are talking about nuclear physics right now which is a hot field at the moment.. [deleted]. Not really.. I'm against the death penalty, but I can understand it. We are talking about an incident Life vs a guilty one, not the same thing.


Also a baby can react to touch by week 8, 


IN FACT, there has long been documented reaction of unborn children to painful stimuli [see endnote 2:b ]. An unborn child, when touched, will awaken.  Further, fetal surgeons have found it necessary to sedate the unborn child with anesthesia to prevent the unborn child from thrashing about in reaction to invasive surgery [see endnote 

Gupta, 2008, p.74, col.2, para.2, “Movement of the fetus in response to external stimuli occurs as early as 8 weeks gestation…”


As a father, it was very clear to me that the baby reacted to my wife talking, singing, eating spicy foods, movement.. I just can't believe someone would think there is anything but an independent human being in there . [deleted]. Those are separate issues and have nothing to do with life. I'm an immigrant myself, and I've had nothing but amazing welcoming by Americans! I was an immigrant to the U.K. Before, and I never felt welcome. Saying this, the Catholic Church spends A LOT of its donations in helping immigrants get paperwork sorted out


The healthcare is another issue all together This is quite useful. nan. then you walk into GR and the prof is like "in this course we take G=c=1 and the mass of the Sun is 1.5 km". OK, hands up the smart ass who has heard of "katals" before. I've been doing chemistry/physics research for (cough) several decades and never come across them.. Why is charge derived from current? Shouldn't it be the other way around? Coulombs are the more elementary unit after all. . The units for momentum were left off the second column. It’s always bothered me that there’s no units with a special name for momentum.... The next logical step is to make a little flash game (phone app) like little alchemy but with physics base units.. I spent way too much time trying to figure out why it said Watts were J/mol. Then I realized I switched from the second line to the mol line.

 I did a stupid.. Would it be possible to get a larger source version for printing purposes?. Ah candela, the runt of the litter. . Now theoretical physics: \hbar = c = k_b = G = ε_0 = μ_0 = 1. I quite like that Fahrenheit is completely left out. . Are sr and rad really not base SI units? That surprises me. They seem fundamental.... Aww look at the poor old radian by itself. . Now do it with the Imperial system big boy, I dare you. Is it though? I mean I guess it would be nice if you always had it around, but whenever I need unit conversions I'm never sitting at my computer with a nice internet graphic handy. It's better just to use known equations to to write units in terms of other units until you get what you're looking for. For instance:
[P] = [I][V] so W = A V

then maybe 

[P] = [F][V] so W = kg m/s^2 *m/s

combined with I = dQ/dt

so that

V = kg m^2 /(Q s^2)

or whatever else you need. Then you never need to have some random bookmark to an internet graphic squirreled away.
. fascinating how these lines, on the right, hold **both** a reflection of our way of dealing with modeling our world, and elements intrinsic in the way the Universe works. There is a huge number of nodes we could have on the right, adding, multiplying and dividing the fundamental constants, but some of the combinations are interesting because we use them, and some of the combinations are essential because of the interactions of fields and forces, nucleotide activity and dynamics essential for life.

this graphic feels like a slice, a fascinating cross-cutting aspect of both physics and "science stories" molded together.. Mols and candelas don't deserve to be base units.  Mols are just a number like a dozen, and candelas are based on human perception.. [deleted]. Could come in handy when explaining to people that mass and weight are not the same thing!. [Source is NIST.](https://www.nist.gov/pml/weights-and-measures/publications/metric-publications). I made something similar to this with a rotatable 3D graph with each axis representing multiplication by mass, distance and time, respectively. So for example (0,3,0) would represent volume and (0,1,-2) would represent acceleration. Anyone want me to upload it? . Maybe add the molarity? (Unit „molar“ or M, equivalent to mol/L ). Disappointed there is no jerk or jounce :(. Love the colours and layout, thanks for sharing.. Imma just take this with me to lecture/recitation.... Shouldn't becquerel be in mole/second?  radiation is an emission of energetic **particles** after all.. I wish this had been handed to me day 1. Would have made life so much easier.. I didn't know I needed this. Isn't solid angle m^2 /m? I thought it was defined by the ratio of the (arc) area to radius.. 2 hours late.... Where is the jerk?. Where is kg*m/s?. Where's the delta G in J/mol?!? . If you let me be cocky, there’s a second missing arrow at the acceleration input node. Amazing work, I wish I’d seen this some years ago, still a lot to think about. Thanks!. If you let me be cocky, there’s a second missing arrow at the acceleration input node. Amazing work, I wish I’d seen this some years ago, still a lot to think about. Thanks!. I definitely understand . this is the worst graphic i've seen in a while. Can moles please fuck off? We can't set the quantity it measures to 1 so it doesn't deserve a place at the table.. In belgium, every high school student no matter the subject has to memorise this. . Yoink. The fundamental units are a 7-dimensional basis upon which any physical quantity can be expressed.  This way of looking at it is particularly useful for tracking units numerically.  You can write any quantity as a length 7 vector that has a double which represents the exponent of the base unit.  . Its interesting to think about one level lower than this... how the SI base units are defined.  For example how is time defined?  Time is defined by change.  How is change defined?  Change requires time.  It seems to be a circular definition.  Then again the only way we know time happens is from our memories.  If we could not form memories we would not be aware of time passing but would be stuck in 'now'.  Is this where physics crosses into philosophy?  Entropy can be used to define the 'direction' time.  Very confusing and fun to think about.. >The mass of the Sun is 1.5 km

hold up. Aren't you off by a factor of 2 there? The Schwarzschild radius of the sun is about 3 km.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwarzschild_radius#Parameters

Edit: Ah, nope. I'm too rusty.. That's because they use micromoles per minute instead. That being a much more biologically relevant scale.. It's easier to measure a current than a charge. The base units are partially made for convenience of measurement and calibration.. SI defines the ampere as a fundamental unit, and the coulomb as an ampere second. My understanding is that it's easier to measure current than charge. 

> The ampere is that constant current which, if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length, of negligible circular cross-section, and placed one metre apart in vacuum, would produce between these conductors a force equal to 2×10^−7 newtons per metre of length. [footnotes suppressed]

[source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampere#Definition). You could reorganize this chart in a lot of ways; I think the reason Amps are fundamental is just because they were easier to measure historically.. I like to think that charge is more fundamental than current. But measuring charge without measuring current is nearly impossible so it is not that practical i guess. How would you define coulomb then?. Charge is defined in terms of current and time.. How is an amp second more elementary than an amp?. My high school physics teacher, Mr. Berzina, jokingly offered a solution to this. He told us that it was his hope that we'd write the unit kg*m/s as a Bz (for Berzina), and that maybe after enough time it'd just become accepted lol. Like doodle god but metric units. I'd play it . It's okay my lad. https://www.nist.gov/pml/weights-and-measures/publications/metric-publications. At least it connects to stuff. Kelvin converts to Celsius and then...nothing.. And sometimes 1 = -1 = 2\pi. I think then that Celsius should be left out as well (not actually, just being pedantic); note on this chart, Celsius is the only unit which requires some sort of extended relation to the base- the constant of 273.15.  All others are derived without superfluous constants.   The only reason we use celsius is to have an easy reference point to freezing/boiling water; which, in the grand scheme, means nothing.  Unfortunately the actual definition of Kelvin requires a relation the the boltzmann constant which itself was picked for... it's relation to the triple point of water, and not something more fundamental.. It’s not SI.  No shit it’s not included . It's high time anyway isn't it!?. That's because they are way more fundamental than SI base units. They're essentially just other names for 1.

If another civilization at the other end of the universe came up with their own unit system, their unit for time, length, mass, current, etc. would be different than SI base units, but their units for angle and solid angle would be exactly the same.. Moles can't be set to 1, so it's not a real unit.. this chart facilitates dimensional analysis which is always a good sanity check for your results. Serious question from a curious Engineering student.  Does the jerk or jounce or any further derivative have any real implications/applications in the world?  Or is it more of just an academic venture past acceleration.  I have been so curious about this. I've had a few the tables from [this page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SI_derived_unit) printed out next to my desk for several years, through undergrad and now grad school. Sometimes you just need a little dimensional analysis to keep you sane :). This was partially motivated by the same desire. It's defined by the area of a "cap" of a sphere divided by radius squared, so it's dimensionless.. It's area over radius *squared*. Hiding somewhere in the comment section. . It’s a convenience scale, using C12 as a reference point, just as Celsius uses water as a reference point. It’s much easier to set the most frequently encountered material you’re working with to a round number, instead of coming up with a unit that’s 10^24 atoms or something, where nothing you’re encountering in the laboratory will be rounded.

Perhaps no one’s really using pure C12 all that much anymore, but it apparently isn’t big enough of an inconvenience to push anyone to change it, and I staunchly defend my laziness.. Then you'd have to redefine all the mol derivatives to something very different, and you can't change what the mole is without radically destroying it's usefulness as a concept.. I'm serious. https://faraday.physics.utoronto.ca/PVB/Harrison/GenRel/GenRel.html

Scroll down to "Units of Mass" for this particular subject, though the rest of that page is indeed worth the read!

edit: also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometrized_unit_system. Constant factors don't real. You are right in the sense that the Schwarzschild radius of the Sun is 3km, but the mass of the Sun is 1.5 km. The singularity in the Schwarzschild metric has the form 1/(1-2M/r), so it blows up at r=2M. Ah, that makes sense, thanks. . So that's why candelas are a base unit, despite being related to watts.. This guy physicses. Current is actually the hardest of current, voltage and resistance to measure, which is why it's not done in practice for precision purposes. For voltage and resistance we have the Josephson effect and the Quantum Hall effect, respectively.

Current is more the base unit for historical reasons.. *until may 30, 2019.. This will soon be out-dated! The SI units will have a new definition starting from May 20th in which the new definition of the Ampere will be based on the definition of the Coulomb. And a Coulomb will be defined by saying that the elementary charge is exactly 1.602176634e-19 C.

&#x200B;. I believe this is just an unfortunate chronology. Why would a coulomb be defined like that? A coulomb is just a coulomb, and an amp is a coulombs per second. At least, that's how every physics class I've ever taken in my physics degree has defined it. . That’s what I always tell my students—if you become a prominent physicist, name it a Snape in honor of your favorite physics teacher!. That part of NIST is up but the web book isn't? Ugh. But but but... Kelvin yo. After the SI redefinition, Kelvin connects to Meter, Second and Kilogram :). From what I know, the Sievert also requires additional information, since it's not just the amount of energy absorbed (that's what the Gray measures). It has additional factors to determine the biological effect.. Celsius gets to stay because it's really easy to convert from Celsius to Kelvin and for a lot of purposes they're functionally the same. . Meh, units are units. Unit conversion happens in this field. That being said... was Fahrenheit ever an SI unit? . Right I understand that, I was just surprised that they weren't adopted by SI.. Also for the physics GRE. You can't bring in the chart to the test but having a mental picture like this, I can definitely see being useful for the GRE . There's definitely huge applications in the real world. Usually they are avoided in academia, at least it was for me, unless you get into a really specific field. Jerk is involved when operating vehicles; whiplash is an example of jerk. If you've been in a manual car with someone learning for the first time and they don't switch gears smoothly, that "jerky, un-smooth" motion would be an example of jerk and snap. I think I also saw somewhere that chaotic systems occur when you're talking about third order derivatives of motion. There are more applications like smoother rollercoaster rides but I'm too lazy to find them. I've linked something to talk more about the topic.

Reference for further reading: [http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0143-0807/37/6/065008](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0143-0807/37/6/065008) 

EDIT: Link for jerk in chaotic systems: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaos\_theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaos_theory). It's not even a proper unit. It's a number.. Use the number of particles.. while I see the units, can you give us a mental model, a sense of thinking about it, that makes distance as mass. 

IE: is 1.5 km a displacement or factor of displacement in some sense of the mass the sun changes something related to gravity?  thinking here of these 2-d model representations of gravity on a fabric where heavy balls displace the surface downward.. Although see my other comment.. For anyone who didn't run down an internet rabbit hole looking at SI units for an hour in response to the original post - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019_redefinition_of_SI_base_units. Ampere is still the fundamental unit after that, just with a different definition.. You make a good point. They both seem defined by the other, whereas, only the coulomb has a standard measure. 6.242e18 protons.

If I had to guess though, it’s probably because the amp was discovered and defined first, and much later was quantified by determining it’s amount in terms of atomic charge.

‘Ampere offered a physical understanding of electromagnetic relationship, theorizing the existence of an “electrodynamic molecule” (the forerunner of the idea of the electron) that served as the constituent element of electricity and magnetism.’ ~Encyclopedia Britannica. Yes. A coulomb is basically unit-ree, it’s just a number. If we started from sratch we would orobably make coulomb fundamental, but it is what it is.. We could just replace Kelvin by Joules (k_B = 1) and not really lose much. In contrast to setting c or hbar to 1, which are both annoying for the non-relativistic and classical limits respectively, not much is lost in taking k_B = 1. Then define Celsius in terms of Joules if you want applications to "ambient" conditions (which Kelvin isn't so useful for anyways).. But it’s also really easy to convert Fahrenheit to Rankine. I sense conspiracy.. Is that a genuine question? In that case, no. . it corresponds to half of the Schwarzschild radius, there's an awkward factor of 2 in the metric. Off the top of my head honestly I can't think of a nice physical picture for relating masses and length, I can think of physical pictures for setting c=G=1, namely

a) c=1 because c does nothing but relate the time coordinate, which we measure with a different unit, to the space coordinates. They're really 4 axes of a 4D space, no reason for them to have different units. This way we measure time in meters (or lengths in seconds).

b) G=1 because G just relates the inertial mass to the gravitational mass in Newtonian gravity. You have F=ma and F=GMm/r^2 . the fact that the first m is equal to the second m is a deep fact called the weak equivalence principle, which basically says that the ratio between gravitational mass and inertial mass is constant, and equal to G. It makes sense to set this ratio to 1, because those two masses are physically the same thing, just not in our units. Since in SI the units of G are m^3 kg^-1 s^-2 , with c=1 they become kg^-1 m and thus m=kg, we measure mass in meters.

If some physical picture about lengths and mass comes to my mind I'll edit this comment, just the Schwarzschild radius doesn't seem enough. . The idea of use one type of unit to measure another is nothing far from everyday.

Soupouse you have to meet another person and he ask you, how far you are. A perfect valid answer it would be. 30 minutes walking. The problem here is you can walk fast or slow, so it's not very reliable. The solution is to use the speed of light instead ( everyone agrees on that). So now one second is equivalent to the distance that the light travel in one second.

Now play the same game with mass and distance. For instance let's take a ball of iron. If you tell me the radius, I can calculate the volume and knowing the density automatically know the mass. But again, it's no consistent, you can change the type of iron the temperature...

Well this doesn't happen with black holes, they are all practically equal ( If they don't spin and have no charge). So now we can all agree on; one meter is equivalent to the mass of a one meter black hole.

Side notes:
 The mass of a black hole it's proportional to the radius, not the volume like a regular ball.

And I learning to write in english so suggestion are all welcomed.. I believe it's the Schwarzchild radius of the sun (distance the mass of the sun needs to be in to make a black hole) . https://faraday.physics.utoronto.ca/PVB/Harrison/GenRel/GenRel.html

Scroll down to "Units of Mass" for this particular subject, though the rest of that page is indeed worth the read!

edit: also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometrized_unit_system. Although the coulomb can be defined by the charge on N protons, you can't count the protons and measure the charge. You can measure the force on current carrying wires though, hence the definition of an Amp:

>The ampere is that constant current which, if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length, of negligible circular cross-section, and placed one metre apart in vacuum, would produce between these conductors a force equal to 2×10^−7 newtons per metre of length. [footnotes suppressed]
>
>[source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampere#Definition). The relationship between velocity and distance and time is another example where the derived unit (velocity) would probably be the more fundamental one depending on who you talk to.  But historically, distance and time seem easier to measure and reason about for most common purposes.. But... Kelvin. Rankine is the devil's work. It's a cursed scale. .   It was more a round about way of saying obviously Fahrenheit would not be included on a table of SI units.. "Off the top of my head honestly I can't think of a nice physical picture for relating masses and length," 

I literally visited a production facility for my job the other day and at one area of the plant the guy showing me around was like this is where we measure the weight so they are all the same. I look at the screen and it was a graph with time on the x axis and length on the y axis. 

I was like huh I thought you said it was measuring weight. Is it like inferring the weight by...?

He was like yeah I think so something like that.. This is my second year of engineering but when I see people in this sub talking like this I feel like I might as well drop out . I don't really see what the weak equivalence principle has to do with setting G=1. Setting G=1 isn't just about the numerical value, it's also about the associated dimensions. The equivalence of gravitational mass and inertial mass seemingly has nothing to do with concluding that the combination of L^3 M^-1 T^-2 ought to be dimensionless. This is in contrast to relativity where space and time are found to be "the same", so L=T is sensible. Even including relativity, [G] = L M^-1 . It's not obvious why the weak equivalence principle leads to concluding that this quantity is dimensionless. The numerical factor can be 1, 6.674x10^-11 , or whatever, but it is a dimensionful quantity and it does not immediately follow that it becomes dimensionless just because its numerical factor is unity.. Thanks for clarifying. That seems difficult to measure too, but easier than counting charged particles. Ha!. What? How dare you talk that way about Bizarro ~~Celsius~~ Kelvin!. I'm just picturing like a normal factory making machine parts but all of their measurements are in relativistic terms. "Yeah just take 5x10\^-14 seconds off this radius and it should be good.". haha no but this is kinda different. It's not like we have some way of measuring mass using length and then we say directly the length instead of plunging it into some relation and get the mass, we literally redefine the units of measurements so that the constants G and c are dimensionless and equal to 1, this implies that the units of time and of length and of mass are the same. Nothing relevant that I know of in the Sun is 1.5 km long, except half of its Schwarzschild radius which we hope to never observe.. Why? This is just blah blah on units of measurements, removing constants removes clutter from long calculations, that's really the primary reason. As an engineer you'll probably never care about this stuff and you'll never see any General Relativity. Natural units are only used in theoretical physics.. You are right. The WEP is the closest explanation that came to my mind as to why we should get rid of the factor G, but it's not a nice justification for it to be dimensionless, it could still be 1 L M^-1. But I reckon that if it were dimensionful, expressions as 2M/r would look very weird. Can you think of a reason for G to be dimensionless?  . Surely Rankine is Bizarro Kelvin. You made my day. All 3.655e11 meters left of it. Maybe because I’m gonna be taking physics next semester and you sound extremely intelligent. Scares me a wee bit haha . Uh. [Yeah](https://imgur.com/8INuh3D).. Wow man, thanks for the ego boost. I'm just a puny student trying to survive, I think theoretical physics is one of those fields where it's easy to impress people by saying nearly nothing haha.
Don't worry, Physics is a well structured subject where you build up on what you did before linearly enough, at least at the beginning. So naturally if you hear someone talking about more advanced things than you're learning right now, it's going to sound like Chinese, but when you go to the classroom what they teach you should make a lot of sense, because you have the prerequisites for that. It's always been true so far for me.

And you'll very likely measure mass in kg like everyone in their right mind :) . I'm sure you're smarter than you think you are.  


And anyway, even if you're notthe smartest in your class just remember that for every good idea that a smart guy had, there have been decades of "dumb" guys crunching the actual numbers and getting the real work done.  
They are the people who make cars and launch rockets into space, not the geniuses. This is what SpaceX's Starlink is doing to scientific observations.. nan. From [GOTO Observatory](https://twitter.com/GOTOObservatory/status/1206708402937712640).

Notice how the Starlink satellite is much, much brighter than the other satellite, and even brighter than the observed galaxy.. Can anyone ELI5 what I’m seeing here?. Help me understand...doesn't this happen with every artificial satellite?. They have said [they are going to work to darken the satellites](https://twitter.com/davide_coco91/status/1204477313460719617?s=19).  The next batch is supposed to have some satellites where they are testing this.  So they're not ignoring the problem.. This is obviously not good and it will only get worse in the future, but I have to admit (and as a physicist it pains me to say that) I think that the benefits of Starlink (i.e. internet access for poor regions or maybe even just rich regions with poor internet) outweigh the disadvantages once you take all of humanity into account. Global affordable internet is definitely the future. Unless Spacex fails and leaves us with a sky full of garbarge, they might also bring us the utopian launch prices that starship promised, which in turn might lead to a whole new generation of space based telescopes. I'm not sure we can stop Spacex/Starlink now,  but we might get more out of it than we lose in the end. We may sacrifice a whole generation of ground based telescope astronomers, but as I said we can't stop this anymore and if SpaceX doesn't do it someone else will.

**Edit:** I see lots of people having many different opinions on this. I don't have time to read all the responses, but I saw one comment pointing out what I think we all need to come to terms with eventually: Given a choice between internet and ground based astronomy, most people on this planet will choose the internet. And the decision won't even be close. I think this is something that reddit of all places should be able to agree on. It doesn't matter if you believe Spacex are saints or the literal devil - people want their internet. And they will gladly take it from whoever provides it.. r/fakealbumcovers. Wo why haven't other satalites done that?. I'm a bit late to the party here, so I'm pretty sure I'll be buried -- and I'm about to espouse a contrarian view, so I'm pretty sure I'll also be brigaded.  Please don't do those things.

These satellites are extremely photogenic and they blend in to galaxy shots about as well as your younger brother photobombing your prom pictures.  **But photogenic and problematic are not the same thing, and satellite streaks are not problematic for astronomical observation**.

Satellite streaks damage single frames of observation  They are photogenic precisely because the satellite is moving fast.  But that means they are also transient.  Most astronomical objects, well, just don't change much on time scales of seconds.

What this means is:  **unless you are observing astrophysical phenomena that change every few seconds, satellite streaks are a total non-problem.**  The solution to avoiding streaks like in this exposure is to take yet more exposures, subdividing your hours-long exposure into many smaller frames, and then merge them post facto.  Each satellite is only in one frame.  Voilá -- you've got a satellite-free star image.  Since the "duty cycle" of satellites obscuring the sky is something south of 10^-6, you don't really lose by doing that.

That type of effect (exploiting time dependence) is sometimes used to produce people-free images of tourist destinations, which is a far harder problem than finding some bright streaks and marking those pixels bad.

For phenomena where second-to-second changes *are* important, well, high speed photography cures a lot of ills.  How likely is it that a satellite will be crossing in front of your telescope *just* as an unknown asteroid occults a distant star?  Well, it could in principle happen -- after all, folks do occasionally manage to capture the ISS or an airplane silhouetted against the Sun or Moon.  But it's a very small hazard to observing, compared to more mundane problems like haze and clouds.

There are plenty of more obtrusive problems astronomers face every day.  Satellites are photogenic but ultimately much smaller problems -- even in enormous numbers - than many other effects faced by the observing community.  I know, because I do this kind of thing professionally.  I am in the business of observing faint clouds of electrons crossing our solar system, against the glittery not-so-blackness of space.  Time-dependent bright streaks are just one of many layers I have to peel back from the data routinely to get to the actual observable physics. 

That's not to say satellites aren't a nuisance for scientists.  I'm sure the upcoming large constellations will be.  But they're not the danger to optical observing that they're being made out to be.

I wish this issue weren't being so overblown.  It is going to cause a huge amount of credibility blowback, and make it harder for the science community to rally around important issues (like ordinary terestrial light pollution).. It’s startling in this thread how many people have no grasp of how astronomical research is conducted..... I heard couldn't you just program to ignore them? Doesnt all astronomers know exactly where these satellites are? I honestly dont know it's just what I've heard.. [deleted]. Makes me wonder if there would be a cheap way to add some small observatory capability to each starlink sat facing outwards. Once they are in full swarm formation their combined optics could surely provide some amazing astronomical observation, perhaps surpassing the loss to those ground based observers?. Doesn't this only drastically effect observation at certain times? Unless I'm missing something, the satellites won't show up as bright lines when they are in the Earth's shadow, right?. I am completely lost, can someone explain what’s going on here?. Theyre supposed to be testing one with a reduced reflectivity on the bottom. I doubt it will take much away. 

Also, I think these are still in the process of having their orbit raised. Again, not sure it will have much of an impact in how badly this chops the picture.. Space corporation war when?. What about Hubble?. Elon: "So why couldn't you spot this darn asteroid before it crashed on Hawthorne ?"

Astronomer: "Starlink". All I’ve learned from this thread is that people (reddit armchair experts) have no idea how iterative engineering works in the real world.. Musk is such an asshole, it's infuriating that he has an army of sycophants ready to eat his shit and pretend it's delicious.. I don't wish to be obtuse. But why do Starlight sattelites emit light in the first place?. How can an entire industry that lives and breaths by post processing images fail to remove a line? It all seems so sensationalist. SpaceX has already said they will address this voluntarily. What is constant whining going to do?. Is this really that much of an issue with noise cancellation and adaptive optics?

We already have a lot of observation techniques that deal with artefacts similar to this. Why is Starlink in particular an issue? Seems like a lot of fuss over very little in the grand scheme of things.. This may be an unpopular opinion, but I think this is an inevitable side effect of technological progression. Just look at how the location of observatories have changed in the last 100-150 years. Light pollution from growing metropolitan areas has forced many cutting edge observatories farther away from cities and to higher altitudes to escape various sources of noise (atmospheric, radio, light, etc.). I think were beginning to see that the days of terrestrial observatories are numbered. We will probably see more polar observatories and eventually space-based and lunar-based (far side) facilities as scientists seek quieter locations to perform their experiments and observations.. its gonna make some pretty pics when there are thousands of these xD  


RIP space observation. It's clearly an issue right now and potentially for the immediate future but, I hope to see stuff like this on r/agedlikemilk in the not too distant future, or atleast my lifetime (I'll be on reddit till the bitter end). Theres only so far we can go with ground based telescopes and even with as exciting as the new radio telescopes currenly in development are more and more observatories are going to be outside the atmosphere especially if SpaceX continues making it cheaper and cheaper to launch.. ELI5 why is Starlink an issue but not the thousands of other satellites?. I’m hesitant to criticize just yet. There are l lot of other satellites already in orbit. the amount of debris and junk in orbit limits orbits and observations more than existing satellites and starlink and everything combined.

Satellites beyond the earths orbit, moon orbit distance, like the James Webb telescope are the future. Ground telescopes just have to much atmosphere in the way. low or “normal” orbit telescopes are just getting crowded out and pick up infrared and radio interference from earth.. Looks like SpaceX just increased the demand for launching space telescopes. Will the presence of these satellites hinder our ability to detect and map NEOs?. Why are starlink satellites brighter?. Gonna have to dim the lights a little.. Am I right in thinking that multiple exposures with some AI photo processing could mitigate this problem?. It seems like this is a question of what’s better for the human race the ability to see deep into space or giving everyone on the plant access to all of the human knowledge also if your against this you same logic could be used to say we should not have any artificial light at all people can and will fix this “problem”. Coat em in Venta Black?. Very cool. Stars and Stripes. Do the orbits of starlink not move?. It's making 1980's New Wave album covers?. As much as I love Elon this really sucks.. Yikes. *cue existential crisis. What am I looking at. Going to need vanta black for it to really be effective at all. Even then it'll be blocking light and altering observations. Sick album cover. They did not think this through.. B r u h. Hey it's art!. What are the orange lines ???. Maybe some vanta black?. Are u kidding me , this is disgusting . 
They must a better way than changing the night sky for 8 billions people. I could see spacecraft launching enough small online space telescopes to make everyone happy. Space chemtrails? Is there no end to the mind control attempts by the Illuminati?. Next time they should move so the phone lines aren't in the shot.. Oof. Just to update, earlier I said "Stop It" in regards to shitting on starlink, and that cutting edge science won't be bothered by this because collectively, we've seen about all we can see from the bottom of the gravity well.   People got all up on my statement to the point I wrote this further comment.  While I do enjoy amateur astronomy, I also believe that humanity will continue to progress only as long as the internet exists and is accessible.  In my (assuredly layman) opinion, Starlink > Ground telescope. We will long for the days in which the smallest sliver of the stars were visible from the surface of the earth.. Interesting- so it’s an augment/upgrade to the current unprecedented ability of our government to spy on the entire planet, gotcha!. I know this post is old but these satellites are flying open book to boost up. Have a read.


https://www.spacex.com/updates/starlink-update-04-28-2020/. Why doesn't SpaceX make satellites with telescopes pointing out, then allow astronomers to use that data.. It shouldn’t be hard to programmatically ignore them. And there must be something already available.. [deleted]. It’s worth it. If we progress down here we will make much faster progress up there.. Elon musk seems to have a bad habit of not considering the unintended consequences of his big projects

###. Any constellation is going to do this. There's many of them planned. Why specifically call out SpaceX other than try to make a political stunt?. These will benefit millions of people and this is [the plan for them.](https://themoment.tv/playlist/26228/moment/258963) Can't we throw another hubble telescope past these for science?. Right because there are no other satellites in orbit other than starlink... this must be a regular occurrence.. Can someone explain to me what the purpose of Starlink actually is? Is it just data, but definitely free?. Ground-based* observations. This would make an amazing album cover. That fucked up and should not be allowed.. I’m ok with it.  I understand the innate feeling that we should find out as much as we can about the cosmos but let’s be realistic here.  Internet for the world is more important than another photo of andromeda. I mean, this might be a foolish statement, but don’t we have the ability to launch space based telescopes? Couldn’t we just move to that if there is no way to stop Star link?. Don't worry, the rent-seeking conman, Musk, will be gone in a few years. His Teslaron and TheranosX, etc. gone or bought up, and the rent-seeking conman in jail or on the run.

Separately, I've run the numbers and claims on Starlink, and it flies like a lead balloon. Too many satellites to launch, maintain, and replace for too few customers not already having Internet that **CAN** pay. Its competition, cellular networks with Internet access, are expanding fast around the world, especially in poor countries.

Starlink will fail, and its orbiting junk will fall back to Earth.

And then there is the rent-seeking conman's Buck Rogers stainless steel Starship rocket farce.... on the bright side, thanks to SpaceX's quest to reduce launch prices, future space telescopes will be much cheaper to get to orbit. Specially once the BFR becomes operational.. *Multi-billion dollar private company is selflessly putting thousands of satelites in orbit to provide internet for far fledged and underprivileged nations, and they're ruining my freelance space photos. I should complain about it on reddit!*. How about we just move our observation points off earth?

Lots of work, lots of benefit?. Contract spacex to send some orbital telescopes up there too?. In-space telescopes are the future. It will impede amateur photographers a bit, but getting worldwide internet for those that need it is more important, in my opinion. Then again, I'm not an astrophotographer.. Woah thats cool :0. Can you expand on how the satelite streaks disturbed the scientific observations (asides from looking weird and not pretty)?. Well maybe we just need more orbital space telescopes.. This is stupid. If we can afford to get internet satellites up and running, we can afford more space telescopes.. I feel that a computer can remove it.  It's lines because the light reflecting off the satellite as it is taken over the course of seconds/minutes/hours.  But we know the path, know it transverses the image at a generally fixed rate.   Seems like something that can be removed at the hardware level as the image is being taken.. This is fucking infuriating.. I feel like a dick for thinking this but isn't faster wifi everywhere in the world kinda... more useful than these scientific observations?. This will only make astronomy better once we are putting all of the resources for astronomy in orbit instead of most on earth and some in space. 

We will not be able to do earth based astronomy or radiography as easily or clearly anymore and the average enthusiast won’t have the most ideal experience, but we have been doing it for thousands of years. It might be time for a shift in perspective. 

Additionally, I’d stake my bet on not only future but even existing earth based techniques finding far better results from being utilized in space. I’m not an expert, but I figure that’s exactly what some deep space and orbital hardware that we have in place is doing now.. Do this experiment again now that the satellites aren’t in the middle of launch. yea just allow civilians to go to space. Fuck you.. Man it would have been nice if other Internet providers didn't ass-out on the world and gate keep it so much someone litterly had to pull the five year old I'll don't my self move and shoot shit in space SMH lol but hey the net will be cheaper. Oh wow, it's almost like gazing at the galaxy and galaxies beyond won't be viable from earthbound telescopes in the near future. I'd take mass participation in a globalized world over a hobbyist telescope photographer's photos for advancing towards the future. Let's put more telescopes in space as a solution.. I'm so fucking sick of these alarmist posts. 

Yeah, you might someday have to filter out the frames where satellites are passing by. It's a tiny, insignificant fraction of your exposure. Don't capture rapidly moving bright spots, and your galaxy will be 0.00001% dimmer, if one even intersects it. Your camera is a goddamn computer, and people should start to use it like one and stop doing raw long exposures.

 It's not like you're using film, and even if you were, you could still rig up mechanism to stop the exposure when a bright object got into frame.

It's like no one in this thread has touched OpenCV before..Cameras write into RAM before writing to disk.. process when in RAM. Then write. No need for moving shutters or throwing out exposures. You throw out a single read of the CCD (or more likely the compromised part of one and write the rest). With monte-carlo integration, you could quite easily determine if the brightness in a region of your image has fluctuated beyond your tolerances and throw that part out. You *should* be doing this kind of processing anyway, because it would help filter out other noise.. On the other hand, with Starlino funded Starships we'll soon be able to have dozens, and with time  hundreds of orbital telescopes.. Well spacex is making space flight cheap so in orbit observatories are even cheaper.

What will fund this advance in space?  

Starlink.. Stop it.  The future of scientific astronomy will not happen from within the atmosphere.  Orbital platforms > ground platforms.  Starlink is extremely important.

Edit: I don't think I am wrong here; so fuck all y'all.. I get the concern but why not just launch a telescope into space past the satellites? The world is moving forward. As should the scientists.. Theres no doubt the current cost of building and operating space observatories is too damn high! That wont last forever though, everyday it becomes cheaper and one day the benefit of not being limited to the optical-radio wavelength will outweigh the cost of operating outside the atmosphere. I get it, cosmology is your thing so fuck the x-ray and gamma wavelength but they matter too, damnit! 
Side note, how do you put your field in your username? Do I need to actually provide my credentials to someone or can any asshat just what they want up there?. We need to send telescopes to space to see better anyway but we aren't technically capable of that quite yet. A few more decades until then. I remember them saying something about "dimming" the satellites... Has this happened?. Can someone tell me what the problem is? Is it the amount of objects in the sky? Space garbage? Is it emitting interference which is why it's cloudy?. Thought I was looking at a silly set up below hydro lines... *read title again*... Oh, now I see.. Looks like a criterion collection cover. The next launch will be ones with non reflective paint supposedly. Sucks that space x is gonna launch like 40k of these things. Looks like a cool record cover. Capitalism will always ruin everything you love. I didn't think it would find a way to ruin something as niche as deep space observation, but I should've known it would find a way. Worst ending, by far.. Time to develop software that can ignore imaging the satellites.. Dope album cover tho. It seems like this would be pretty simple to remove with software. I assume the satellite is only in the frame for a fraction of the time the area is being observed.. Rent-seeking space observation. ;)

How common is it to use long exposure for observation? It seems like it would be easier and produce a better image to take discrete frames and drop those with foreign intercepts (when stacking).. [removed]. I’ve heard a new law just prohibited commercialization of satellite internet making starlink a useless investment for spaceX. Its supposedly a necessity for the operation of the space force or something. May want to fact check me on that because im not sure. Can you tell me the time and location for these images?. Space guitar appears in the sky and your favorite dead guitarist starts tuning up. What do you hear?. Dope.. Sure, but that'd make a pretty cool looking poster. Throw a little text and there and boom, you're done.

Or it could even be a desktop background.. Not an astrophysicist: 

Can’t we avoid this issue digitally? These satellites appear on predictable patterns and paths. 

Like the image-capturing version of the machine guns on old warplanes timed to fire between the props. 

This seems trivial. If so, we obviously choose both (space images and cheap-global Internet). 

What am I missing?. Elon is very smart and it's all part of his plan, he knows what he is doing. Why would anybody buy a ground based telescope where they can't see anything past the blanket of starlink, when you can spend only $650,000 to have SpaceX launch a personal orbital satellite in slightly higher orbit than starlink that can stream your telescope view directly to your Musk phone at 69Gb/s.. Sounds like Elon needs some Vantablack. Absolutely idiotic. Elon Musk is a megalomaniacal wonder boy who does things without consequence.. It looks and sounds like soccer players going down in an incredible heap because the opponents eye lash landed on his shoulder.
Pilots do the same BS, “I was DAZZLED by lasers!! I feel like I’m blind!, permanent damage! Wa!...”

if you just took a quick second to put things into perspective, you can easily determine how difficult it is to hold a laser on a single point when its sitting still across the room let alone travelling 564mph or 907km/hr and 30-50 km away.

If you are using optics that are able to see definition of a galaxy, the chances of a satellite passing in front of your view  are incredibly small.
Take your single ruined frame and add another.
Boohoo!. Adding power lines?. Lmao. Unpopular opinion: most people don’t care about this. And those who do, only pretend to care. It might give you likes on Reddit and Twitter but in reality most people don’t even think about this kinda of stuff.. Looks like art to be fair. [removed]. Just need new methods of filtering them out. I could see an algorithm that merges many photos together also checking differential between images to eliminate the satellite from the final merged image.. Ah I see now, the bright stripes are from the satellites. I thought it was about comparing the pictures made by different satellites.. Here's a few really educational videos discussing the contentious issues between astronomical observations and these Starlink-like networks:

Scott Manely:
https://youtu.be/GEuMFJSZmpc
https://youtu.be/dJNGi-bt9NM. > and even brighter than the observed galaxy.

... but in no way disturbing the observation of the galaxy.

Various satellites are permanently as bright as the temporary brightness of the Starlink satellites. But no one complains about them for some reason?. Are these Starlink satellites that are in their final orbit? Or are they new ones that are still raising their orbit? (And thus lower/brighter). Well, there is no information about the position of the other satelite, it can be much higher (i think that it is. Since the line is shorter) other satelites in LEO are probably even more bright. I read somewhere they were trying to lower the albedo of the starlink to prevent this also?. Could be because these Satellites are half the distance away from earth than our traditional satellites. An unfortunate thing for our telescopes here on earth but the tech the starlink can provide is pretty extraordinary. Maybe it will convince nasa to make more satellite telescopes to see in farther galaxies. Stupid question, but why hasn't there been any orbital observation projects where observations are made from out of our own atmosphere? Wouldn't that yield better results in general?. Trails of the Starlink satellites. Compare to the trail of some other satellite (BR corner).

They are so bright AND there is so many planned, what watching (deep) space would be almost impossible. Notice the observable size of the galaxy in the BL corner. Compare it's visible size with the trail of a Starlink satellite.

https://twitter.com/GOTOObservatory/status/1206708402937712640. You are seeing in-transit Starlink satellites causing streak in a long-exposure astronomy photo. 

These sats are brighter than normal because they are in a low altitude (where the rocket got them), using their own (weak) thrusters to climb to a higher altitude (where they will be far less visible).. [deleted]. Yes, but SpaceX are talking about more that tripling the number of satellites in orbit. Starlink satellites are far lower in their orbit so more reflected light reaches the telescopes. They also plan to launch 12,000 of these things. I have a feeling that nothing will be done to stop this madness until they start interfering with American military/national security assets.. Some brighter than others but Elon wants to start 30.000 of very bright satellites.
That will have a huge impact on the sky quality.. They’ve gotta buy Vantablack from Anish Kapoor. [deleted]. Wouldn’t we still have a problem though because the satellite is still blocking the view of the sky? It may not be a light nuisance if they end up fixing that, but it’ll still block the view. Or am I not understanding what I’m seeing in the picture. > I think that the benefits of Starlink (i.e. internet access for poor regions or maybe even just rich regions with poor internet) outweigh the disadvantages once you take all of humanity into account

I don't think the likes of OneWeb (which, BTW, is way ahead of Starlink and has somewhat saner business case), Samsung, Starlink and every other Tom, Dick and Harry hell bent on launching thousands of satellites, are in any shape means of providing affordable internet.

We leave in very strange times where we take at face value claims that launching bunch of custom-built satellites and constantly replacing them, maintaining ground communication infrastructure and having to equip users with specialized custom-built terminals, is going to be cheaper than putting copper or fiber optic cables on the ground and using cheap off the shelf network equipment? And all that in face of the fact that vast majority the Earths's surface is either devoid of humans or contains only very low density populations, meaning that your satellites spend most of the time using only a small fraction of their capacity because there is nobody living under.

Here is a very good post about how lopsided is the economics of these internet constellations just based on the capacity considerations 
http://tmfassociates.com/blog/2019/12/12/reality-and-hype-in-satellite-constellations/. > ...leaves us with a sky full of garbarge...

The orbits are so low that they decay in five years or less.. >We may sacrifice a whole generation of ground based telescope astronomers

We will probably sacrifice all ground based telescope astronomy. The goal is 12.000 starlink satellites, even if their brightness was reduced significantly, this would make ground based observations completely impossible.

I'd rather have ground based internet and ground based astronomy instead of space-based internet and exclusively space-based astronomy.. This is a bit bogus because it acts like there was no alternative: Starlink/Musk repeatedly gave lip service to media saying he would work with astronomers and then promptly did not. Simple solutions such as painting the satellites a less reflective color would have done a lot to help mitigate the problem, but were not acted on. Starlink certainly won’t be the last constellation either, so this problem will only get worse.

The fact is Musk is doing this for profit, and at the expense of multiple publicly funding investments in basic research. I don’t think that’s a good thing.. >outweigh the disadvantages once you take all of humanity into account.

Is a company that has monopoly level control over the internet for billions of people not scary to you?. Yea but capitalism isn’t the solution. Let international cooperation of states do this like we’ve done with other great space projects. I think you're spot on. Having internet access helps level the playing field for those already at a disadvantage.. Tell that to the astronomers who need to work.. [deleted]. With Starlink active, wouldn't it also be cheaper to beam images from smaller space telescopes back? since you don't need a satellite link anymore potentially, just a link to the closest starlink satellite, which puts it on the net.. OneWeb strives to offer the same service and no one is complaining about their satellites. Why? Because they are stationed in MEO, where they can't disrupt observations. There's a way to provide satellite internet without these issues, and it's not Starlink's.. Except other companies will probably do a better job at prevent reflections. It’s clear that it isn’t something SpaceX even accounted for in their design.

And also... what advantages is starlink giving me?. [deleted]. I’d have to agree. It’s not even sacrificing the ground based telescopes, it just means that additional planning and post-processing is required.. Even if SpaceX fails, I imagine some other company would buy these satellites. It's valuable infrastructure.. I absoluetely agree :). I posted at the top level about [why satellite streaks are actually a non-problem](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/ebuztz/this_is_what_spacexs_starlink_is_doing_to/fb8q7mz/) for astronomy.  I'm also pointing to it here, to add to the torrent of orangered in your inbox.. I completely agree. I'm assuming this is only an issue for old analog long exposures instead of digital multiple exposures since you could easily drop the frames that include satelites from the final render in the latter case.. How is the progress going for moon based telescopes? It's the next step for better resolution and information right?. This thing make me so sad because one of my best friend have one of the worst internet connections of the world, and this thing can be the salvation for her, but at the sametime, letting they destroy ground based astronomy is like destroying my child dream, I cannot decide what is worse.. > I think that the benefits of Starlink (i.e. internet access for poor regions or maybe even just rich regions with poor internet) outweigh the disadvantages once you take all of humanity into account.

Agree.  But not only that, but that battle is already long lost.  Over the next hundred years, the sky will fill up with "legitimate" reasons to place satellites in orbit.  

Lets think bigger.  Consider the next 1000 years.  Will we be pointing land based telescopes at the sky for the best deep space images?  No.  

The future of telescopes is in space.  In orbit.  On the moon.  Anywhere off of the Earth.  Start building that now.. The main problem is that it’s all controlled by a sigle corporate entity. Yes. They do, but not nearly as brightly.

There are 2 trails in the image in the bottom right. The dim line from the left side is a regular satellite.. They do.. Space x is planning on more than tripling the number of satellites in orbit. I disagree, and, yes, I'm also a professional astronomer more than 20 years post PhD... I disagree with you, for several reasons. 

First of all, time domain astronomy is getting more important, as is optical astronomy with a time resolution that is down to seconds and better (e.g., eclipse timing for exoplanets, which is one of the fastest growing fields of astronomy right now). So I think that the premise that timing doesn't matter does not reflect what is going on in the field.

Secondly, read out noise is more of a problem than you claim in a reply in this thread, and even if it was not a problem, stacking causes additional problems in data analysis, as does the very uneven exposure that you are getting if you have to severely destreak your images (think of the extreme case of HST, where destreaking has to do because of cosmic rays, which results in a much lower overall sensitivity than what is theoretically achievable). 

And, finally, don't forget that the observational efficiency is affected by the readout time, and given that a second on a larger telescope costs on the order of $1 in depreciation, reducing the observing efficiency by a factor of 2 or so will really hurt.

In summary, the problem is that we will be having 20000 satellites  up there that even after the potentially possible optical coating will be brighter than 8mag. To put this in context: this is comparable to the number of stars of 8th magnitude and brighter.. [deleted]. > Since the "duty cycle" of satellites obscuring the sky is something south of 10-6,

The problem is they move very quickly. The real rate of contamination is nowhere near that low. I work with an instrument with a small 1 arcmin^2 field of view and yet I have seen 4 frames badly affected by satellites, out of maybe 7-800 frames I've worked with. I don't know how 10^-6 was calculated but it does not reflect the reality of the issue, even now.

The problem is the way to deal with that is just to mask the trails, throwing the data away from the stack. At the moment people don't plan around it, even though it is annoying because the rate is low. But a huge increase in satellites means much more wasted data. 

>The solution to avoiding streaks like in this exposure is to take yet more exposures, subdividing your hours-long exposure into many smaller frames

But there's always balance between other needs. In my work exposures are 15-25 minutes, because shorter ones suffer badly from read noise. Additionally, most instruments have significant overheads for read outs.. helpful.. Yeah I'm honestly a little shocked that I'm having the discussion I'm having on the \*physics\* subreddit. I understand that people are excited about the prospect of fast internet (I guess?), but people are acting like this isn't an issue or can easily be resolve "in post processing".

This is an issue for ground based astronomy and will increasingly become so as more and more satellites are launched. The way this has played out so far is a failure of regulation in my opinion, and there is absolutely zero reason we should take Musk's word that he intends to seriously work to mitigate the effects these have for astronomers.. No there is no way. You have long exposure times to dedect faint objects. e.g 15 minutes. When you start the exposure you start it and dedect also the satellites flying through the field.
Star Link will send too much satellites into the orbit, that there will be no way to observe the skies without big quality shrinkings.. This is the first thing we thought at my CS department at uni as well. We KNOW where these guys are gonna be, so they can be removed using deterministic algorithms.. The reason is because this is typical behavior by Musk and other Silicon Valley types. These are Lime scooters in space. Launch the product and wait for the regulation after the fact. Oh, it doesn't work out? Toss them in a garbage heap and tweak the design. It's about externalizing consequences and championing yourself as an innovator because you can move faster than the people who are affected by your actions and the people with the authority to stop you.

The sad, sick part is seeing the hordes of people "le epic bacon XD"-ing around their hero; Space Keanu.. > Why bother launching a half baked idea, 

They wouldn't know the effect until they launched the satellites. Have you seen any complains or concerns from astronomers before they did the launch? There're zero discussion on this issue before hand, it only gained traction because they started launching.

> generating more problems in a sector for a marginal profit gain on a market that already has more feasible internet options (NA)? 

How do you know Starlink is less feasible? You have done the market research?

> I'll believe in white knight Elon if and when he actually delivers in the execution of his half-assed ideas.

Well we'll just have to wait and see won't we. People said the same thing about Falcon 9 and Model 3, now they have all fulfilled their promise, there's a reason people believe Elon can do what he set out to do, because he has done it in the past.. The half baked idea was 40ish satellites. The final constellation will have tens of thousands. These 40 don’t matter. They are test vehicles. They are missing some communication hardware so they will likely be deorbited rather quickly when they are no longer needed. SpaceX is working directly with astronomers to find solutions to these issues. This included new finishes to the satellites to make them less reflective.. I believe youre discounting advances in the detector hardware that could help alleviate these issues. If this trend continues I think we will see the proper investment in these technologies to help keep the huge investments already made into these optics relevant.. Sure, but they plan to launch hundreds or thousands more of these. When taking photos this means turning sensor pixels off dozens of times per hour dramatically increasing exposure time which might not sound like a big deal, but for sensitive measurements like asteroid detection or exoplanet detection (where we need to monitor brightness very very precisely), this leads to big gaps in data and more.. Yup. People just like to complain about things.. Long exposure telescope images are sensitive to satellites passing by, apparently SpaceX 's starlink has a much more pronounced effect than other satellites, probably because it has its disks pointed towards earth. >I doubt it will take much away.

What is your experience in this field?. Hubble is also affected by satellites such as these, because it's in quite a low orbit.. But it is delicious. It's reflection of sunlight. I think they're much brighter than other satellites because they are in a very low orbit. They don't emit light, they reflect it just like the moon.. I could be wrong but I believe its mostly reflected sunlight.. [deleted]. Because the line is several pixels thick and possibly covers important objects in the sky. It is an issue for wide field sky surveys, as they look at large parts of the sky for long periods. Could be very hard to filter out light pollution from these, especially when you realize there could be internal reflections and other secondary effects in the telescope.

Not a big issue for ordinary, low field of view observations, tough.. Let's see someone build 3 30 Meter telescopes in space for any reasonable cost.. There's only so far you can go with a car, too, so let's get rid of roads and tell everyone to buy airplanes.. They're brighter and there will be tens of thousands of them all together.. [Here's an article about the issue at Sky and Telescope](https://www.skyandtelescope.com/astronomy-news/starlink-satellites-astronomy/).  Currently, the main difference from the thousand other satellites is that as they are rising to their final orbit, there are multiple satellites bunched up, and they are brighter since they are closer.

They're planning to paint them black to mitigate the issue, starting with testing a few for the next launch.  But the issue over time is that the number of satellites they are planning to launch will be very large.  So in time, the problem will change from several bright satellites to many dimmer ones.. Not qualified to answer, but in the image above there is the trail of another satilite. You probably didn't notice it because it's quite dim.. Good luck to them finding anyone who's got the money to launch them. The HST, a 2.4m telescope, cost 10x as much as four 10m-class telescopes at the time of launch.. Which may sell them some falcon launches. Create a problem that you have the best solution for.. No.. Lower orbit and the current ones they are testing with don’t have any coatings to reduce how reflective they are. The next batch going up are testing a coating designed to make them less reflective.. I made a comment about that somewhere on /r/space. When the picture was taken, the Starlink satellites pictured were already in their designated orbits above 500km. The [new, darkened Starlink satellites](https://twitter.com/cgbassa/status/1217907157900976129) are also not really fainter.

You can trust [the professionals](https://twitter.com/SuperASASSN/status/1217843254722383872): Starlink will ultimately make earth based telescope observations impossible.. Maybe it will in the future. Musk has metioned the potential of a fleet of Starlink-derived probes launched on an expendable Starship for exploration. 

>We should send probes to outer solar system & get high res, true color images of these strange things. Maybe there’s an alien artifact out there …

>Massive delta velocity slam from highly elliptical Earth orbit using a fully retanked, but lightened up Starship with no heat shield or fins/legs. Best choice for the impatient. Ion engines are too slow.

>Probably no fairing either & just 3 Raptor Vacuum engines. Mass ratio of ~30 (1200 tons full, 40 tons empty) with Isp of 380. Then drop a few dozen modified Starlink satellites from empty engine bays with ~1600 Isp, MR 2. Spread out, see what’s there. Not impossible.

https://twitter.com/elonmusk/status/1111760133132947458?lang=en. Lots of assumptions here. Those lines are incredibly bright. I work with astronomers and they tend to have to roll their own when reducing/removing artifacts.. Definitely not free. It's supposed to help pay for SpaceX to go to Mars eventually.. Global satellite internet anywhere on Earth, but with low latency comparable to fiber (current satellite internet is not very usable due to high latency caused by high orbit of sats - Starlink sats are much lower).. Cheap data aimed toward poor countries and very rural communities.. Consider that even a relatively modest 2 meter telescope in space is a mission with a price-tag of a few billion. On the ground, it would be a factor of 100 cheaper. There would be other benefits to going to space, but the main limitation is cost. Big ground based telescopes have incredible value for money, in comparison to space based telescopes. If you trade that efficiency for space based telescopes, less will be done. Space based telescopes are also built with simple instruments, which means there's lots of things they can't do. Ground based telescopes on the other hand have lots of novel capabilities which have a huge impact, it takes decades for things to even be considered for a space mission. Space is best reserved to compliment ground based astronomy, by looking at parts of the spectrum which don't make it to the ground.. What about Bezos and his plans that basically mimics a lot of Musk's ideas?. False. JWST cost ~10Bil to develop, and the Ariane 5 its getting launched into space on cost $137mil or 1.4% of the cost of the project.. Oh yeah, selflessly, that is what private companies do, they totally don't do things for profit.. Not qualified to answer, but it's insanely expensive, and with current technology our observation points can't be put in space anyways.. [deleted]. For real though.. CCDs aren't like consumer detectors, they don't use a rolling shutter. One long exposure is literally one frame with no time information. If you break it down into shorter exposures you waste more time with read-out overhead and you increase the amount of read noise in the final image.. No idea why this is getting voted down. It's the singular reason why this entire thread is unscientific, politically motivated BS. This describes how the science is done and why the satellite (or passing birds or overflying aircraft, or meteors, or fireworks l, or any other bright, disruptive, transient noise is simply not an issue. For that matter, the photos posted with this thread are of zero science value. They are overexposed wide field shots that seem to have been taken expressly to capture satellite tracks for this clickbait post.. They’ve gotten nowhere with their big rocket. And building telescopes with mirrors tens of meters in diameter to be launched is just unreasonable. Ground-based telescopes will never become obsolete.. It will for as long as putting things in space isn't prohibitively expensive. I don't care how optimistic you are, but even if spaceX and competitors progress extremely quickly, they aren't going to have affordable launch programs for a long time.. [removed]. That's funny because it was ground based observatories which got the first direct image of a black hole.

That observation required petabytes of data being transported from observatories all around the world. The drives were physically moved because it was quicker than sending them over the Internet, even with optical fibre. What is your solution that would allow for such a large data transfer from orbit to the surface?. We already have many telescopes in space, and several are in Lagrange Point 2 instead of Earth orbit (see the ESA Gaia mission, for example).. Yes in the next batch flying end of this year.. Long exposures are pretty common, as large ground based telescopes spend most of their time doing spectroscopy. Reducing exposure times leads to an increase in noise in the final product, this may be marginal or catastrophic depending on the exact observing scenario. For spectroscopy and narrowband imaging it's usually not an option, for broadband imaging it is possible. The other problem is that it takes time to read the detector, so if you have more reads you have more lost time.. There hasn’t been any talk of banning satellite constellations. A few have been approved instead. StarLink is just one of them and the most talked about due to being an Elon Musk venture.. [Jerry, of course...](https://youtu.be/ugRct9pNQYM)

Counting stars by candlelight

all are dim but one is bright

The spiral light of Venus

rising first and shining best

On, from the northwest corner

of a brand new crescent moon

While crickets and cicadas sing

a rare and different tune

Terrapin station

In the shadow of the moon, 🎶*terrapin station*🎶. I agree, if humanity can launch thousands of satellites just to provide worldwide internet. I'm sure the brightest minds in astronomy can figure out how to take multiple pictures and select the one without a satellite.

That or bitch until Elon shoots up a few telescopes and lets people use them for free.. Well the game plan for this plan is beneficial. Fortunately we have the technology to start placing better, more powerful telescopes and other tools in space, and not on the surface of Earth. There really is t any consequence here, just forcing us to advance.. [removed]. Thanks! I too didn't know where to look.. Yeah, I had this same problem.  I was thinking "the pictures look pretty similar, maybe the quality is a small bit better in the one labeled 'other sat?'". The concern is that there are going to be a lot of them.. Well if one of the satellites passed in front of what you are trying to measure, then your observation is ruined, which is wasted time, money and effort. The problem is that SpaceX send up a hundred of these ~~telescopes~~ (E: satellites), not just one. As far as I know, the biggest issue is that they could have coated the surfaces of the satellites to be non-reflective, but they didn't. As you can see, they are much brighter than the other satellite, even though they are quite small.. They where looking for a GW counterpart. Starlink may have hidden it. So they need to observe the region again.. > Various satellites are permanently as bright as the temporary brightness of the Starlink satellites. But no one complains about them for some reason?

You can see one of those in the picture and from the brightness probably understand why "nobody" is really complainging about them. Especially since there are not (going to be) 12.000 of them in the sky.. Not when there's 16,000 of these things in the sky!!!. >... but in no way disturbing the observation of the galaxy.

...until the satellite passes right in front of the galaxy, which is inevitable. The starlink light is covering a nontrivial patch of space.. Well, the spy satellites aren't going to finally kill Comcast...  

So, effectively killing off multiple media companies, not sure why there would be media campaigns against Starlink.

/s. My takeaway is that Elon is an alien and he's covering up something in deep space.. > higher altitude (where they will be far less visible).

At 550 km altitude they will be less bright, but visible much more often. Even with just 1500 satellites, at 52 degree latitude there will be dozens visible all the time in the summer, even at midnight.. The satellites are not yet at target altitude nor directed towards the sun. There is a large chance they wont be this bad. Wouldn't lower in orbit mean they are in sunlight for less time after sunset? As I understand it, satellites only mess up images during the time the ground is in dark but satellite is still catching the sun.. > I have a feeling that nothing will be done to stop this madness until they start interfering with American military/national security assets.

Military is looking to launch their own LEO satellite constellations, possibility by buying satellite bus from companies like SpaceX. There are real advantages of LEO constellation, that's why a lot of entities are investing in it.. All you're doing is spreading misinformation. Very low earth orbit satellites are _less_ visible because they're hidden for most of the night. If you put up a long exposure wide angle lens of  the sky you'll fill your image with satellites that are in MEO. I can even see them going to a dark sky site with my bare eyes. I can see multiple satellites in the sky at any point in time. SpaceX satellites aren't even that low comparatively. https://qz.com/296941/interactive-graphic-every-active-satellite-orbiting-earth/ Look at the 550km level and see how many other things are in that same area.. Man this thread brought out a lot of corporate shills and or people who have no clue what they are talking about. Dunning  Krueger at its finest.. They won't be black. Satellites are generally built to be maximally reflective for heat purposes. Again these are in low orbit, so unless you're looking toward the horizon shortly after sunset/before sunrise you're not going to see these. This is much ado about nothing.. Also won't make any difference for radio astronomy. They'll still be super bright.. it's well known that eventually all telescopes will be sent into space as the light pollution and weather and other issues will make it impractical to justify building them on the ground. starlink may just well be the incentive to push people to advance the field faster.. I think the idea is to reduce the big problems to specular reflections from the big solar panel, which would have a narrow ground track. Unless they paint them with vantablack!. OneWeb isn’t ahead. They have fewer satellites in orbit and with SpaceX launching another batch soon they are just falling farther behind. Them not having their own rockets increases the price they have to pay per satellite which is a big consideration.. > Here is a very good post about how lopsided is the economics of these internet constellations just based on the capacity considerations http://tmfassociates.com/blog/2019/12/12/reality-and-hype-in-satellite-constellations/

The same guy was predicting Starlink is in trouble and likely dead last year, I'd take his predictions with grain of salt.. > I don't think the likes of OneWeb (which, BTW, is way ahead of Starlink and has somewhat saner business case), Samsung, Starlink and every other Tom, Dick and Harry hell bent on launching thousands of satellites, are in any shape means of providing affordable internet.

OneWeb is having funding issues (currently in a lawsuit war as well) and only has 6 satellites launched. So they're quite far behind. Whether they'll succeed or not is still up in the air.. The target audience is obviously not people who live in semi close range of fiber optic cables. But you're right in the sense that if Spacex et al. completely miscalculated their technology's value and market possibilities, it will fail. However I think it's too early to judge that, especially for blogs without insider info.. There's another way . . . During the recording of the image, a program that knows the exact positions of all the satellites could mask them out when compiling an hour's long exposure. Throw a good programmer at this problem and the right hardware and software and the negative effects of satellite reflection are minimized, though not eliminated.. Yes, Earth has lots of sparsely populated areas... how do you propose we get internet access to people in these places?  Fiber?

You have the answer to your question in your question.. [removed]. Here’s the thing, if it ISNT cheaper, they simply won’t succeed. I have a feeling it is cheaper, and then you’re going the have to square that logic.
The good news is, companies like SpaceX making space super cheap is ONLY good for astronomy. It will be trivial and inexpensive to get telescopes on the moon, or in high orbit that will give everyone clear, 24/hr a day access to space in a way we never imagined before.. Starlink will have lower latencys over long distances in comparison to fiber optic  cause photons move faster through space then through glass for example. Which is worth the cost i guess. Would also rather keep a clear space tbh.. Not a hot take. Ton of assumptions. And just because the "cost" of laying fiber night be less, there's a lot more that goes into it, and cost can be measured outside of how much currency it takes to complete something. I'd rather crowd the night sky and not dig up the earth.. 12,000 may be the goal, but SpaceX has already submitted paperwork for another 30,000.. Frantically hoping that SDSS V and APOGEE get me some good LMC and SMC data before this all plays out. Actual question: would it actually make ground based observations "completely impossible"? Can you not take multiple observations and then average the images to remove the noise of the satellites?. > We will probably sacrifice all ground based telescope astronomy. The goal is 12.000 starlink satellites, even if their brightness was reduced significantly, this would make ground based observations completely impossible.

Wrong. Only large field of view surveys will be impacted. Low field of view observations, which is the vast majority, are very unlikely to be affected, even with 12,000 sats.. The true goal is actually much more than 12 000 satellites when it's all said and done. But space x is already taking steps to make sure all satellites moving forward are much less reflective, which will greatly reduce the impact they have on ground based astronomy.. > Simple solutions such as painting the satellites a less reflective color would have done a lot to help mitigate the problem

Painting them a different color is not a "simple solution" -- it's not like a car where you can just pick whatever color you want that you like the best. The exterior surface on a satellite is *functional*, and the main reason is thermal control. Often you want things that reflect sunlight (a.k.a. visible light) but radiate well in the IR so the satellite doesn't overheat in direct sun.

Choosing a different surface finish is an engineering decision with impacts that ripple to the design of the rest of the system. Your comment is ignorant of the realities of spacecraft design.. > This is a bit bogus because it acts like there was no alternative: Starlink/Musk repeatedly gave lip service to media saying he would work with astronomers and then promptly did not.

[American Astronomical Society says SpaceX reached out to them in May and they have 8 telecons so far discussing the problem](https://aas.org/posts/advocacy/2019/12/aas-works-mitigate-impact-satellite-constellations-ground-based-observing), so your statement is incorrect.

> Simple solutions such as painting the satellites a less reflective color would have done a lot to help mitigate the problem, but were not acted on.

It's not simple as it would affect the thermal balance of the satellite, but nevertheless SpaceX is already working on this and they'll include a coated satellite in the next batch for testing.

> The fact is Musk is doing this for profit, and at the expense of multiple publicly funding investments in basic research. I don’t think that’s a good thing.

The sky is a shared resource just like radio spectrum, optical astronomers will have to share the sky with other users, just like radio astronomers will have to share spectrum with other users, most of them commercial for-profit entities. You may not like it, but it is the reality, and not at all unique to SpaceX or Musk.. > This is a bit bogus because it acts like there was no alternative: Starlink/Musk repeatedly gave lip service to media saying he would work with astronomers and then promptly did not.

This is completely blatantly false. There was not an utterance from astronomers (and certainly no response from Musk/SpaceX) until after the first 60 satellite launch. There were many government public comment periods that astronomers could have objected to but did not. SpaceX representatives (Musk and Shotwell) both commented afterwards that they will work to try to make the satellites less visible on future launches. The next launch is expected to have some of the satellites experiment with making them less visible.

Please don't invent facts to suit your opinions.. > saying he would work with astronomers **and then promptly did not**. Simple solutions such as painting the satellites a less reflective color would have done a lot to help mitigate the problem, **but were not acted on**.

What are you basing this on?  You don't just go out and slap some paint on a satellite and hope for the best.  You make sure you know what you're doing doesn't break anything.

Plus, they've said that the next batch of satellites will have some satellites where they are testing this.  So they *are* doing exactly what you said they weren't.. > Is a company that has monopoly level control over the internet for billions of people not scary to you?

Except it's not just one company, there's also OneWeb and Amazon constellations, possibly others.. if they have a monopoly because no one else is providing the people who will gain access will be happy. its not like someone else cant do the same. well they arent doing it. whats wrong with a company doing it? space x isnt letting them. >  Let international cooperation of states do this like we’ve done with other great space projects

Other great space projects by governments are grossly overpriced and spaceflight is stagnating since Apollo ended. Time to give capitalism a chance instead.. Assuming it is even practical or affordable.. I thought the complaint is astronomers need to do more work, i.e. to remove the satellites from images.. unless your computer communicates directly with the satellite the idea of it being some free speech service is a joke. you will always talk to a station on the ground that a local government can censor.. > This is just marketing bullshit. StarLink will never be affordable in poor regions because StarLink needs a crap ton of ground stations.

No, they don't once they have inter-satellite links.

> BUT, months later they announced, "Oh well, we'll skip that laser interlink tech for now." So it will just be a dumb, expensive service mostly targeted at the rural areas of North America, plus some commercial customers like shipping companies.

There's nothing wrong with shipping a 1st gen product with smaller feature set, then add more features later on, pretty much every hardware/software company does this.. Ugh, why can’t Musk revolutionize internet access and global communications on the first try.. Uh ... the idea is that the end-user *is* a StarLink ground station.  Straight from your rooftop to the satellites.. They expect to be launching satellites with the laser interlink by the end of next year. It was delayed due to concerns about components surviving reentry, not abandoned like your post seems to suggest.. Data transmission is like the cheapest part of a satellite.. Beaming down the images is really a bottleneck? Never thought of that. Right! Smaller, more numerous, cheaper space telescopes, made easily accessible for their control teams. In the long run, there could be great benefits possible.. I love that you are curious and trying to think of solutions, it's a great attitude to have, sadly this one doesn't work. Ground telescopes often serve a difference function to space telescopes. As one example, radio telescopes, which will also be effected by this project, can't just be launched into orbit.  
 
As it currently stands, getting time on a space telescope is not an easy task, even if you could launch enough space telescopes to compensate for the loss of possible ground observations, I don't know how many you would need, but it would be a hell of a lot.. The main antennas for the satellites are pointed down, so any telescope that could use it would also be affected by the satellite trails from starlink. The Hubble space telescope will also be affected, because it's in a low orbit.. > Because they are stationed in MEO, where they can't disrupt observations. 

No, OneWeb is at 1,200km, just 650km higher than Starlink. It's still LEO, MEO is between 2,000km and 36,000km.. OneWeb is different than Starlink, and you cannot do what Starlink intends to do in MEO. Besides latency, there is also the issue of orbital debris (much higher concern than in low LEO), and receiver size.. One of the primary goals of Starlink is reduced latency, which enables much of the interactive web today. OneWeb might be a fine service, but if latency is a concern, Starlink is going to have less than half the latency, on the order of 25-35ms afaik.

Engineering is always about tradeoffs, but there is are reason why Starlink has such a low orbit.. OneWeb isn't launching to MEO, even if they were going to MEO they'd  be even more visible, as they'd be larger and always in sunlight. In LEO they're not in sunlight for most of the night sky so disrupt viewing even less. The worst spot is high LEO as then they're permanently up there if they fail and maximally observable at night as they're both low and highly visible. That's exactly what OneWeb is doing.. > what advantages is starlink giving me?

Perhaps none if you already have fast fiber. But thats a pretty selfish stance.. > elon's method is one of hubris and sloppiness. elon is a big idea guy and is not a person who has put a lot of thought and care into a concept.

For a hubris and sloppy guy, he certainly accomplished a lot. 

> just look at his boring company. it's a similarly idiotic and wasteful concept.

People said the same thing about SpaceX and Tesla when they were just started.. This just isn’t really accurate. With the amount of data collected each night by future surveys like LSST, these transients will certainly be an issue. A ton of work already goes into identifying and removing or mitigating the effects of things like, and with Starlink and future constellations planned things will only get much much worse. There’s a reason astronomers are worried about this.. While I think you are understating the effect on ground based observations, let's just ignore that to talk about the bigger issue with this line of reasoning. We know, more or less, what this will do do ground base astronomy. What we don't know is how well Starlink will actually work. Elon Musk has a history of making claims which are, to be blunt, outlandishness and impossible (such as his Telsa production goals, etc). Taking into account that this could also ruin our view of the night sky, can we say it's really worth the risk? The losses are definite, the gains, not so much.. > The future of humanity is in space. In orbit. On the moon. Anywhere off of the Earth. Start building that now.

FTFY.. No. So.... Still why haven't other satalites caused this? Tripling isn't that much more tbh as Thees tons of space crap up there and thst dosnt seem to be an issue?. I’ll ask you since you have the pedigree needed (I just asked this to several in this thread - waiting on responses)

Given this will continue to happen - Couldn’t more be done on the detector hardware side? I come from the world of electron microscopy and we have seen huge advances in detector tech which is making previously impossibly techniques possible now. This includes every part, more advanced scinliators, much faster read outs, much less bleed, on chip frame averaging..etc. not saying these specific solutions are immediately applicable in your instruments but a similar advancement could be made. We have the advantage of industrial investment and larger unit numbers but ultimately these detector advancements should be translatable. Another posted mentioned their telescope had a ccd readout overhead of 15seconds? That’s 3 orders of magnitude slower than the chips were using in our microscopes! 

So I guess my question is within astronomy how often are you guys pushing new detectors? And given this issue do you think a hardware side solution could alleviate this?. >time domain astronomy is getting more important, as is optical astronomy with a time resoltion that is down to seconds and better (e.g., eclipse timing for exoplanets)

The thing is -- if you're *already* gathering data with time resolution of seconds, satellite occultations of any one object are so rare that you'll essentially never lose a time sequence of that object from satellite flyovers.  

>stacking causes additional problems in data analysis

Not really -- at least, nothing worse than just leaving the shutter open and letting the starfield do what it will.  You just get extra read noise.  Modern cameras designed for low read noise (such as EMCCDs and some CMOS detectors) offer under 1 e^- noise on each read.  

>as does the very uneven exposure that you are getting if you have to severely destreak your images

SOHO/LASCO imagery collected during a solar energetic particle event is a severe destreaking problem, with 1%-30% of pixels affected in each exposure during severe events.  Scenarios with 10^5 or more satellites in orbit offer destreaking problems several orders of magnitude less severe.  LASCO is a good analogue for intuition building since its field of view is similar to that of LSST although its pixels are far larger on the sky.

In long time-domain sequences, exposure times vary like the percentage of each image obscured -- so you're potentially looking at 10^-3 or less pixel-to-pixel variation in exposure time in a temporally destreaked, temporally oversampled image sequence.

>observational efficiency is affected by the readout time

... for which there are a ton of technical solutions, one of which is rolling shutters.

I apologize for being vague about exact percentages -- it's hard to be more precise outside of any one particular observing scenario.. >Are you really in astrophysics?

Yes.

>...have you followed ... the issues that time-domain survey instruments like LSST will face because of this?

Yes.  LSST is planning on looking for changes on time scales of hours, collecting two two-exposure sequences of each patch of sky per observing night.  Satellite crossings of individual pixels last milliseconds.. Astroturfing. Musk's corporations are known to use shills to try and influence public opinion.. .. One thing that's pretty obvious is that Musk and co. pay for a lot of "grassroots marketing", and a lot of his fanbase is very vocal on topics they don't understand (much like the man himself).. Elon Musk spends tens of millions of dollars on astroturfing each year. Hence why this topic is literally more active than the fucking event horizon, and by a lot. Also why he can seemingly do no wrong even though he has verifiable fuck ups/talks out of his ass regularly.. >but people are acting like this isn't an issue or can easily be resolve "in post processing"

This line makes me want to punch things. I do film photography, and it pisses me off to no end when someone suggests that poor technique can be fixed using Photoshop.. > I understand that people are excited about the prospect of fast internet (I guess?)

I think people are excited for the prospect of global internet access.. that's quite different than being excited for "faster" internet when you already have it.. That works as long as they aren't *too* bright, but if they saturate the sensor, it's much worse.  I'm going to quote to [a comment on Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/science/2019/12/spacex-to-cap-transitional-year-with-launch-poised-for-big-things-in-2020/?comments=1&post=38412235), since this isn't my expertise:

> You have to get the magnitude sufficiently low that it doesn't cause blooming on the sensors. A streak can be processed and removed, especially if you're layering multiple successive captures, but if you saturate the sensor, you cause artifacts all across it.. This is a known method in survey astronomy known as transient detection and is not a trivial task.. They're pretty clearly causing bleed into neighboring pixels, and there's nothing you can do to salvage data if a satellite passes between you and what you are observing, or too close to it..  Did you happen to come across any decent resources already tracking the satellites? (Like orbit projection and current location). Do you really think SpaceX did the market research and determined this was the best course of action? If so, why? Because they are a big smart corporation and those never do anything wrong?

Or were they seriously considering becoming a ground-based ISP and then discovered, gee golly would you look at that, satellites make more sense. And we're a launch company! What are the odds??. Also, these satellites haven't reached their designated orbit. 12 000. Jomer88 is pointing out there's only a short window of time when you get this effect where it has just become night on the ground yet is still day at the altitude of LEO satellites, lighting them up like this (like how the sun sets last on the tips of mountains, and sunrise starts there). The number of satellites won't change this time window.. True but only until they raise their orbit to a higher one (where they are going).. Uh oh, I shouldn't have said anything without a degree. It was an opinion. Pretty popular opinion concerning Starlink. I apologize my great, educated, lord.

Also, because the reflection is really important for dealing with heating. There will likely need to be something else in place to account for this. Scott Manley is the source, he has a Bachelors in physics and astronomy. Also he has a masters in computer physics and is a developer for Apple whilst maintaining a highly regarded astronomy, physics and rocket science channel on Youtube.

Already there is an increase in the resources and work required to filter out a satellite that finds itself into EVERY single frame of the LSST. These aren't just Starlink satellites, but the percentage of satellites interfering with research is going to become increasingly from these satellite networks as they grow from sub 100, to over 10,000 strong, and possibly past the 40,000 satellite mark. If you can somehow achieve 50 magnitudes of reduction of albedo, and double the apogee, the night sky is going to get slammed with satellites.

I think it's awesome to be able to pick up some binocs and look at whizzing satellite networks pass planets and constellations. I also think the network is critically valuable for humanity. I think that most people would get excited to point out a satellite passing overhead. I'd also expect the professional side to take exception to the amount of lost pixels, added work and increased costs of operation.. Would the James Webb telescope still be affected by it? I’m not sure how low/high in orbit that one will be in comparison to Starlink. But wont this only be a problem close to dusk and dawn? The earth will block all the sunlight later at night.. And they are in a very low orbit because they are in transit to their normal not-as-low orbit.. But this only happens a few hours after and before dusk and dawn right?. Thank you for the clarification!. If they are observing for "long periods" wouldn't that make it easier to detect a relatively quick passing satellite?. "Reasonable cost"
Let's see them built on earth for a reasonable cost lol. Modern ELT's including the TMT's cost well over a billion already. Not to mention the human cost with the clash of science and humanity going on in Hawaii for the TMT.. How does their brightness compare to the majority of other LEO sats?. What makes Starlink satellites brighter/worse? They're much smaller than most satellites and are hidden in darkness for most of the night time orbit (only visible at early morning/late evening).. Why not?. Vantablack would work wonders.. It’s absolutely kobayashi maru situation where nobody can will or will win but SpaceX is making a huge effort to reduce brightness. 

Also if your above or below 52 degrees your observatory is fine. I would advocate for keeping higher orbits clean of mega constellations. 

But seriously. If you care about this sit down and the whole report.

Also I’m pretty sure that darksat isn’t in its final orbit yet.

And those images you shared all look to be of satellites not in their final orbits. 

READ THE REPORT. Seriously. Get a snack and sit down and read it.. I don't know. The economics of space based Internet are just not sound. How many people have no or crap Internet and CAN pay for space Internet?! We'll see. There is a sounder backing of the venture than the rent-seeking conman's

Blue Origin's low-Earth space venture looks more feasible. Its rocket resembles an actual rocket, not a shiny, stainless steel, Buck Rogers looking prop.

Blue Origin's low-Earth orbit space tourism plan sounds doable, but any talk of going beyond low-Earth orbit is misguided at best. It's not possible. Won't be for at least another century. So no Moon and beyond, but I'm sure many would like to go to low-Earth orbit for a few orbits around the Earth.

Regardless, Musk is a charlatan, and his Starship a prop. Like Theranos and Enron, we won't know the details and extent of the fraud until the implosion happens.

How's that HyperLoop coming.... Starlink itself is an example of how cheap launch can reduce the cost of spacecraft, there's no reason to believe this won't apply to space telescope too.. JWST is an example of how NOT to do things. Grossly overpriced and delayed.. Yes they will when it’s just as cheap to put them in space.

They have obviously made progress but it will take time.

Examples of progress:

- Raptor Engine 
- Star hopper

They’ve literally just started in the scale of space industries.. I appreciate the response, but I don't agree.  I'm not convinced the starlink vs ground scopes debate is solvable presently, but I'll speak out against these whiny ass "starlink is ruining astronomy" posts because it isn't ruining shit.

Really, chiming in on this topic comes off to both sides as purely Elon Musk fantasies; I think you might be reaching because you must hate Elon Musk.  Do you think my bias has me defending Elon instead of starlink?  I don't think so, but maybe.. I know there are telescopes in space. I'm talking about the ones here on earth are too big and we dont have the materials to produce a space faring telescope of the size of about 40 meters. I edited cause I prematurely pressed the comment button. Telescope time is extremely limited, using twice as much time to make sure you you can reject affected frames is not always possible.. Ground based telescopes are become as good or even better than space-based ones die to adaptive optics and advancements in technology, too. Not to mention the difficulty in terms of cost and time of getting space telescope built and into orbit (looking at you, Webb). It’s also a detriment to astronomers of all walks of life on earth and the constellation of satellites has not even been shown weather it can operate to its capacity or not. I don’t think it’s fair that he decided to build these hundreds of communication satellites without thinking of how their design and reflectivity would negatively impact the science he claims he supports. Furthermore, Musk’s only successful endeavor is SpaceX, which is funded by the revenue from all his other projects. Tesla is losing money, big time. I don’t think he’s all that everyone makes him out to be.. [removed]. Yes. But the next ones will be coated to minimize reflectivity. They already mentioned that's the plan... AFAIK, SpaceX is aware about this problem and was consulted by a few observatories on how to minimize the effect.. Well, there will also be a lot of benefit from them.. There's going to be a lot of them no matter who launches a constellation. Unless you want to make the claim that we should ban constellations in orbit, in which case I'd call you a luddite, or you're specifically calling out SpaceX in which case I'd say you're being biased.. They're brighter because they're in much lower orbits as well.. > As far as I know, the biggest issue is that they could have coated the surfaces of the satellites to be non-reflective, but they didn't.

No one else did either. Coating the satellites isn't trivial, heat management is one of the concerns.

> As you can see, they are much brighter than the other satellite

*Some* other satellites are very dim, yes. Some other satellites are very bright. There was no other bright satellite in this image, but this is a result of obvious selection bias.. They are brighter because they were just deployed and are in a very low orbit while they work their way up. They announced they're working on the coating.. That was Freudian slip by you, but yeah, in the next half century indeed hundreds of *telescopes* will have been delivered to orbit by SpaceX.. I wonder if a telescope could be programmed to surn off the sensor during the satellite transit,that should be easily programmable . Idk if turning on and off a sensor is easy task. I'm just curious. Same thing happens if a bird flies overhead, or a bug lands on the mirror or a cloud moves in. The angular resolution of a satellite is microscopic when compared to a bird or a cloud. The odds are vanishingly small that a long exposure observation of a point target would ever notice occlusion by a satellite for a millisecond as it passes.. I didn't say every single other satellite is brighter. There are brighter satellites, even if we don't consider satellite flares. None of them happened to be in this picture but the selection bias is obvious.

> Especially since there are not (going to be) 12.000 of them in the sky.

The Starlink satellites get dimmer once they reach their operational orbit. Many of them most recent launch are magnitude 2-3 (what we see here) while the satellites of the first launch are more like magnitude 5-6.. I think, perhaps in haste (benefit of the doubt), you misread the statement you quoted and retorted. 

What was stated was that, paraphrased, there exist other satellites that, already at there final set altitude, are just as bright as the star link (SL) satellites mentioned (whose current brightness is only going to diminish as they ascend to there ultimate altitude). 

You’re statement that “you can see one of those in the picture and from the brightness...” is flawed as it would infer that the “one of [the various satellites that are permanently as bright as star link] can be seen in the image. However, as you then focus on the shown difference between the brightness of the SL satellite and the other satellite in the image (which is not as bright as the SL) it contradicts the possibility that one of the “various satellites” whose permanent brightness equals SL’s is shown in the image as, if it were, they would be of equal brightness.

The non-SL satellite shown is one of the various other satellites that are not as bright as SL’s are at their current position.

(Ew. Even I’m grossed out by the extremely unnecessary length I’ve gone to in order to do what? Clarify something? The clearest thing this comment shows is how bad I’m trying to stall off getting to work.). They are only bright while going up. They are dimmer once in their final orbit. There will not be 16000 going up at once.. It's a nontrivial part of an image specifically selected to have Starlink trails in it. Which is a very small fraction of all images.. Can you explain why they will be visible more often if higher up? Genuine question.. If you work it out, depending on location and time of year these things can be visible for several hours on the sides of dawn/dusk, a huge chunk of available observing time.. >All you're doing is spreading misinformation. Very low earth orbit satellites are less visible because they're hidden for most of the night.

Firstly, the brightness is going to scale with the square of the distance, so when these satellites are reflecting light, it's going to be far far brighter than other satellites that operate at higher orbits.

Secondly, the evidence is right there in this post. Astronomers aren't complaining for no reason, they know this will fuck up their observations.

And bullshit about you being able to see satellites in MEO, that's 2000 km away, you're the second person who's tried to pull that out of their ass in this thread.

Also, the issue isn't just about how low they are, it's that Musk wants thousands of these things put in to orbit with the majority, coming in phase 2, orbiting at less than 350 km above the ground.

Musk is an egomaniac and anyone who trusts him with power over the Internet for potentially billions is an idiot and/or a sycophant.

Thankfully this is Musk we're talking about so his project will likely crash and burn but not before he wastes a lot of money.. A lot of people getting their knowledge of optics from CSI here.. The proposed network will be at 1000km, and not only is space x planning around 1600 satellites, amazon, Samsung and oneweb have also announced plans to build similar competing networks.. When 1500 satelites or so are up, then at 52 degrees latitude there will be satellites visible at all times in the summer, even at midnight. It will be a disaster for groundbased Astronomy.. I don't know if that's "well-known". It certainly used to be, but ground-based telescopes have improved tremendously thanks to adaptive optics, not to mention interferometry. It's not QUITE as important to get above the atmosphere as it used to be, and when you factor in the difference in cost across instrument lifetime, "good enough" might be, well, GOOD ENOUGH, at least for many use cases.. Yes, but we still have thousands here on the ground and they are a big part of current research.. I think sabotaging our current equipment isn‘t the right way to go about improving. No it is not "well known". There are many classes of telescope that ONLY work as ground installations, most notably radio telescopes which need dishes that are dozens or hundreds of meters wide.. [deleted]. yes the thing holding back progress in astronomy is the presence of functioning ground based telescopes. /s. Yes they are. They have opened a factory for serial production of satellites and unlike SpaceX, they have contracted satellite manufacturing to an experienced company that has decades of experience building satellites and knows what it is doing.

They are also already in the process of putting down their ground segment across the world. This means they have found locations, in many countries they have already applied and went through the regulatory process, they have designed the equipment and, again, contracted the work to a supplier with decades of experience in the field. They are also well in the process of setting up their backhaul.

Also, OneWeb has went through the regulatory process in many countries to be able to sell telecommunication services. And most importantly, they have already signed up first customers.

On the other hand, SpaceX has launched the satellites that (and I am willing to bet on that) will be only for show. They have designed their system around the satellite interconnectivity via laser, which means that they didn't really need expansive ground segment. The present state of affairs is that satellite interconnectivity is vaporware, which means that suddenly, they have to put down ground stations, which means that they have to design them, find locations, apply for permits, set up backhaul and so on. Just going through the regulatory process takes years, without mentioning any other stuff

The bottom line is, SpaceX has Potemkin satellites in orbit and is nowhere close to being able to provide service to the customers. OneWeb has less satellites, but the overall system is much more complete and they are much closer to beginning to make revenue (although I am again ready to bet that they will fold in the end - and they probably have the best business case out of all space internet wanabees).. [deleted]. There's a video on YouTube of elon musk expanding exactly this. He expects starlink to be useful to 3 - 5% of the world's population. Mainly people in sparsely populated areas where cables are unpractical and developing countries.

There are also the major financial hubs that will have an interest due to the lower latency compared to fiber optics.. Revenue from few people scattered here and there is not going to support thousands of satellites.. Pizza box sized antenna? Few dollars? Do you have any idea how complex the user terminals are for LEO satellites, with them moving so fast across the sky and having to switchover to another satellite every few minutes?. Nonsense. Fiber is cheap to lay and pretty much anybody can do it. I live on a farm and they have laid fiber all around and that is a small local company. LEOSAT Internet is not economically viable compare to even terrestrial wireless. For the few who can't be reached there are many geostationary satellites which can. 

This is a vanity project.. Have they made space cheap? Last time I checked, their launch prices are not that particularly cheap. They provide same savings by offering less launch capability (the spectrum of missions they can service is smaller than what more experienced launch providers can do).. There is a thing called packet loss. This is not much of an issue in a cable, but it is if you have to transmit through air and go through a bunch of handovers every few minutes.. Plus there are tons of "last mile" issues when it comes to physical networks that can leave huge swaths of geography^* with insufficient access.

If it were so straightforward we'd have done it already, and since we haven't there's a market potential.. Also wont the satellites only be visible shortly after dusk and before dawn? There wont be any light on them later at night.. ground telescopes are also MUCH more advanced than space ones.. Perhaps, but that's really not ideal for many areas of astronomy. Imagine you're trying to observe a variable object. If you take multiple observations over different nights then you'll be smearing that variability out, which makes it basically impossible to study. 

You also can't just fix up a single observation either because the tracks are saturating, so the pixels are set to maximum and will even spill over to adjacent pixels. There's no way to know what the original value was from a single image. 

And depending on the observatory, you don't get to do multiple observations. These telescopes are seriously oversubscribed, so you may apply 12 months in advance for a few hours, and if it's cloudy or you have tracks over your objects during that small observing window -- too bad, so sad. For people who's livelihoods depend on them publishing results and who may have their funding tied to publishing results from that particular project, it's a real issue. That mostly reflects problems in academia and the culture of research, but I can understand why my observational colleagues are panicking a bit over this.. This is what they do, and its not really that big of a deal from what I hear. Pain in the ass? Oh yeah. Not gonna be the end of astronomy. the problem is that the newest such large field telescope is just being built (LSST).. So they decided to just solve none of the problems and launch satellites they knew would cost astronomers a lot of time and money. That makes me soooooo confident that SpaceX will actually deliver global internet and not leave us with a bunch of trash in the sky.. Yes, I know that painting poses an engineering question. In general I'm skeptical that a company can claim to both be able to launch and manage a satellite constellation, as well as *all* of the supporting infrastructure to cover the big step from having satellites in the sky to people on the ground having internet, and not be able to figure out a way to paint the things a different color. There is zero, absolutely zero, reason that those satellites had to be launched before this was figured out. 

I don't claim to be an expert in satellite design, but I think my comments accurately reflect the fact that painting the satellites a different color is far from the most challenging problem facing Starlink, and if they can do what they claim to be able to (provide low cost internet globally), then they surely should be able to do that.. Dark colours heat up faster and cook internals. They are working on this.. Preferably, they wouldn't have launched an entire constellation until they figured this out. The sky is a resource we should do our best to conserve, consistent with our needs. We wouldn't praise a company leveling a forest with that they would work on the effects "for next time".  I don't understand why we're doing that here.. [deleted]. I love being trapped by a heaping pile of internet satellites and their inevitable failure. adding to the trash heap we already have in orbit.. You can use that logic in regards to every monopoly. The real world isn't quite so simple.

Most markets inevitably drift towards total or regional monopolies, and the more expensive mote difficult market entry is, the harder. 

If Musk or Amazon dominates global networking, it would be hard, if not impossible, to compete.. Capitalism has had it’s chance for the last 150. What you get is 8 people with as much wealth as 3+ billion and millions starving to death every year in a world with adequate resources because it’s not profitable to feed them. Capitalism needs to give literally anything else a chance instead of overthrowing their government and booming them. It seems that people don’t get that a core component of Starlink’s design is to be able to support iterations at a much higher rate than typical constellations. The Starlink of 2030 will look quite a bit different than the Starlink of 2020.. Because to fix a problem, you must first work to understand it.

Shallow, flashy "solutions" don't cut it in the real world.. [deleted]. You clearly don't understand the diffraction limit. Yep, the goal of Starlink is not just high availability, but also high quality. It aims to enable cable-quality (or better) connections in locations as remote as the middle of the Pacific Ocean, which isn’t possible in orbits higher than LEO.. >People said the same thing about SpaceX and Tesla when they were just started.

And here we have part of the problem. Tesla and SpaceX were *not* started by Musk, he bought them and then immediately demoted the people actually responsible for developing the technology. The reason you believe Musk has accomplished a lot is because you buy into his image as some mythical Tony Stark figure. He is a businessman playing at engineer because it's good for his image.

Spend some time on an engineering forum if you want some opinions of Musk's ideas from people who have experience in the industries that he tries to get into. It's no great secret that his ego ensures that he constantly intentionally overpromises and underdelivers.. > For a hubris and sloppy guy, he certainly accomplished a lot. 

Tends to happen when you have diamond mine money.. I don’t understand. If “work already goes into identifying and removing or mitigating the effects of things like [satellites]”, then my statement is correct and adding more satellites just means more work in post processing.

I’m not saying it won’t be more effort, or that it’s easy, but it is doable.. I’ve heard some people say they’re more reflective than average, but I’m not 100% sure tbh. But normal satellites do do this to a certain extent. If you look at the night sky long enough in a dark enough place, you’ll see a few satellites a night. 

But tripling the amount of satellites we currently have is kind of crazy. We’re talking about adding tens of thousands of new satellites. Adding to an already present issue. Also there’s a thing called [Kessler syndrome ](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kessler_syndrome) which is kinda relèvent. Detector development is constant in astronomy. There are CCDs that have rapid read-outs, but faster read-outs typically come with increased read noise.. >Modern cameras designed for low read noise (such as EMCCDs and some CMOS detectors) offer under 1 e- noise on each read.

EMCCDs have very low read noise but there is noise caused by the multiplication. For exposures where you have lots of counts conventional CCDs win.

https://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3403

EMCCDs revolutionary for high time resolution or very low count rates, but they're no replacement for the sorts of CCDs used in most astronomical instruments.

CMOS detectors are widely used in consumer products but the requirements are quite different to astronomical needs. It's not all about read noise. Pixel size, quantum efficiency and broadband performance are all important and quite different to current industrial drivers. ESA is using CMOS for space applications because they're more radiation tolerant than CCDs, but for ground based applications CMOS are not ready to replace astronomical CCDs.. [deleted]. Let's not forget the fanboys. Free advertising.. > Musk's corporations are known to use shills to try and influence public opinion.

That's your opinion. There's zero evidence of that. That's simply your opinion trying to pretend it's fact.

There's fanboys, but this lame argument of "paid shills" is ridiculous.. > I think Starlink's focus is on bringing basic internet service to Africa

A really good way to do this is to pay African telecoms firms to build out their network.. Satellite internet is not slower or faster afaik. The issue is latency because typical satellites are in a pretty high orbit. 

SpaceX is going to a super low or it. Assuming they allow their satellites to communicate directly these will have less latency than a ground connection.

The speed of light in a near vacuum is much faster than the speed of light through fiber.. Cover the sensor during flyby? How often do the starlink satellites transit the viewing area? In a 10h observation do the satellites ruin 30s of observation or 7h of observation? Genuine questions. What you're talking about is waaaaay more involved than what you need to solve this problem. You never lose track of your target object. All you need to do is detect when a frame is too bright and throw it out rather than writing it to the buffer containing the long exposure. There is 0 chance you confuse the much brighter, rapidly moving satellite for your distant galaxy.. Every Starlink terminal will have a complete and current ephemeris for the constellation.  With a little encouragement from astronomers SpaceX could be persuaded to provide an API for this when the system becomes operational.

"starlink ephemeris" gets lots of hits.  Try

https://www.celestrak.com/NORAD/elements/supplemental/

and 

https://www.heavens-above.com/. Yes, they absolutely did the market research, they're not even the first one to do the research, many others did the same, including OneWeb. The key breakthrough is the advancement in chip manufacturing which enables cheap phase array, add that to SpaceX's reusable rocket, it's a good combination. Doesn't mean it'll be 100% successful, but the investors are not investing billions without some idea on feasibility.. JWST will not be in Earth orbit so it will be fine, it will be in an orbit around Earth-Sun L2.. [deleted]. ELT budget is ~1-2Bil pending which of the three GMT, TMT and EELT you're talking about. That's 1/5th the cost of JWST for a 30 METER TELESCOPE.

Who gives a shit about HI...TMT will eventually fuck off to Chile if need be.. Because they move quickly. The NEO will be visible in the next frame, and software can correct for it since we know exactly where the sats are. 

Furthermore, the sats are only extra bright while on transit to their final orbits. Once there they are much harder to see.. The fact that launch costs are not the bulk of the cost is still true even for a mission that didn't go as ridiculously long and expensive as JWST.  Never mind that, yaknow, the technology to build a comparably sized telescope to the best ground facilities in orbit doesn't currently exist and would need ridiculous amounts of R&D and testing.  (Just to be explicit: you've got to assemble it in orbit because there's no way to compact it enough to fit in a single payload). > Yes they will when it’s just as cheap to put them in space.

Which will literally never happen. Launch costs are only one small part of why putting things in space is expensive.. I don't think that "Starlink is ruining astronomy", but I do think that SpaceX should have been more careful - and hopefully will be in future. It is making things more difficult in a way that could have been pretty trivially avoided - especially if SpaceX had taken the time to talk to the groups that figured this stuff out a long time ago. 

I certainly don't hate Elon Musk, I think he is doing broadly good things, but I also think that there are many reasonable criticisms of him - I tend to criticize the companies he runs/founded first, however, since most of the time, it was never his responsibility, and instead was the responsibility of whatever engineer was actually responsible.. [removed]. > Yes. But the next ones will be coated to minimize reflectivity. 

I doubt that this will help much. Satelites are white for reasons of thermal management. Of they truly lowered the albedo of the satelites, it would experience much more solar heating.. But what about the ones that are already up there? And how do we know what effects the newly coated satellites will actually have?. Won't make a difference to radio Astronomy. They'll still be bright as day and fuck up the observations.. They probably should've done that first. [deleted]. They also go dark much sooner because they are in lower orbits and fall in the shadow of the earth.  

The only time you see them is on the horizon near dusk and dawn.  Notice this photo is not clear because it is taken pointed at a sunset.  

This is not a useful scientific photo of a galaxy but a somewhat contrived image with an enormous amount of noise from the sunset.

There are some cases for taking pictures low on the horizon near sunrise / sunset such as searching for meteors.   I think people are overstating how big the disruption to astronomy is.. No one else is threating to launch 10,000-40,000 satellites. Of course there is extra scrutiny.. Oh, thanks for pointing it out, I didn't notice at all :p

Perhaps this is SpaceX's masterplan: Make ground based telescopes useless by covering the near orbits by satellites, and then since they have the cheapest launch platforms they earn all the money that comes from the new demand of far orbit telescopes! Genius!. So either you get darker stripes on your image because pixels got a few seconds less exposure than neighbouring pixels (and turning single pixels off isn‘t possible afaik, at least with a CCD), or you turn the whole sensor off (ie close the shutter and stop the exposure) and that means minutes adding up to hours of time a telescope can‘t be used. And a few minutes costs a lot for some of the telescopes out there!

Also: With 10k-40k satellites, that‘s still quite the task you have ahead of yourself there. First you need the database for the exact location of all satellites for all times (updated in realtime whenever SpaceX launches new ones or dumps old ones, or even changes their orbit a bit), and then you‘ll need to calculate for your target, your location and the orientation of your telescope (which normally isn‘t something you need to know, so please retrofit all telescopes), and *then* you know which pixels to turn off to get beautiful dark stripes.. The problem is the satellites are bright, not that they're getting in the way.. The photo is from their final orbit dude.. The higher the orbit, the longer they will stay out of earth's shadow. Earths shadow is like a long cone that stretches away from the sun behind the earth.. Getting late so I need to sleep.

> Thankfully this is Musk we're talking about so his project will likely crash and burn but not before he wastes a lot of money.

Just one thing though, what Musk project has crashed and burned and been abandoned? Tesla is wildly successful as is SpaceX. Every failure either company has had has led to something better afterwards.. SpaceX's network is at 550km, anything in other orbits is unknown at this point as their plans keep changing. And yes lots of competitors.. > pace x planning around 1600 satellites

by the end of this year. They already have FCC approval for 12,000 total satellites, and reportedly want 30,000 more.. Do you have any sources for any of that?. SpaceX manufacturing their own satellites is a point in their favor, not a point against. Vertical integration is something both SpaceX and Tesla have repeatedly demonstrated they can handle successfully to the significant benefit of their bottom line.. OneWeb has 6 satalites in orbit, starlink has 60.... 

60 > 6. I know that you know you're right, but I just want to say that this is spot on despite the downvotes. OneWeb's business plan is ambitious to say the least. Starlink on the other hand is pure fantasy. It's something haphazardly done because you need an LEO constellation to make rocket reuse worthwhile from a business perspective.

Edit: And I mean this comment chain in general, not just starlink.. Just checking in 2 years later as a current star link customer.. Nothing is 100% for certain in business, but SpaceX has investors including Google, these investors won't be putting down billions without some possibility of success.. If you think that Starlink will be faster than fiber cable I have a bridge to sell you.

Also, most real HFT firms move as close to the location of the exchange as possible.. Source?  Attempts at math?  Knowledge of star links business plan?

Or just empty words?. That pizza box will be a phased array, so the only thing behind it is a power supply and router. Maybe a controller in a separate module, but I can't think of a reason why they wouldn't integrate it into the same housing as the antenna.

Being able to make reasonably priced (a few hundred dollars) phased array antennae is one of the key factors making this sort of constellation viable.. The antenna is pizza box sized. There need to be some bigger antennas but they can be anywhere in the world and consumers don't need to buy them.. Oh my goodness. You must be living under a rock.
A lot of this is private data because SpaceX is private, but the most recent reports of how much cheaper SpaceX is comes from recent Crewed Capsule documentation.

https://www.geekwire.com/2019/nasa-watchdog-report-sharpens-spacex-vs-boeing-spaceship-cost-debate/

Not only are they half the cost, but they’re accomplishing it with more stringent safety requirements than Boeing is being asked to complete because Boeing has been unable to meet those requirements.

This information is SO readily available that I’m struggling to figure out where you might have read that they ARENT reducing costs. SpaceX costs savings are so significant that it’s even cheaper to launch a Falcon 9 even Without recovering it than it is the launch the equivalent vehicles from ULA or ArianeSpace. 
https://i.imgur.com/YRO6jP4.jpg

Can you expand a little bit more on where your incorrect assumptions are coming from?. > Have they made space cheap? Last time I checked, their launch prices are not that particularly cheap. They provide same savings by offering less launch capability (the spectrum of missions they can service is smaller than what more experienced launch providers can do).

I think you've been under a rock for a long time. SpaceX has completely taken over the US launch market and a good portion of the world launch market and provide the full complement of launch attitudes. The "experienced" launch providers have largely been fighting to stay alive through subsidies (Ariane in the EU) and government lobbying (ULA in the US). Then there's China who launches everything else.. I live in a metropolitan area with 5 million people and don’t have access to fiber.. Geography?. They can still obscure the light from behind them, which can be just as detrimental to the image.. Well, yes. But that's mostly because we get about one space based telescope per decade, they are hideously expensive and what we can haul to LEO is limited in size and weight. With launch costs going down and superheavy launch vehicles making a comeback that might very well change in the foreseeable future.. >that's really not ideal for many areas of astronomy.

Not many areas of astronomy deal with momentary (non-repetitive) changes that happen on the time scale of seconds.  

Simply acquiring 5 60-second exposures instead of 1 300-second exposure is sufficient to overcome the streaking problem.  Many modern scientific detectors have essentially zero read noise anyway.. >So they decided to just solve none of the problems and launch satellites they knew would cost astronomers a lot of time and money. 

Yep. They don't give a shit about astronomy. They are interested in making money.

> That makes me soooooo confident that SpaceX will actually deliver global internet and not leave us with a bunch of trash in the sky.

That's complete *non sequitur*. Them not giving a fuck about astronomy has nothing to do with being able to launch an internet satellite constellation.. They'll probably do both.. Satellites have been being launched for years with this design methodology. Including things like Hubble. Why do you think Hubble is polished to a shine? That's not to make it look good, it's for engineering purposes to make sure it stays cool.. > In general I'm skeptical that a company can claim to both be able to launch and manage a satellite constellation, as well as *all* of the supporting infrastructure to cover the big step from having satellites in the sky to people on the ground having internet, and not be able to figure out a way to paint the things a different color. 

It's not that they couldn't have designed them initially to have a dark surface, it's that they have to redo a lot of analysis and testing to change a design that's already done to requalify it for flight. 

>There is zero, absolutely zero, reason that those satellites had to be launched before this was figured out. 

Maybe not from your perspective, but from the perspective of a business needing to demonstrate their products and move from spending money to making money there very much is a reason to launch them as soon as possible.

I'm no SpaceX fanboy, but you really come across as naïve here.. Then I really don't think you understand thermal management on spacecraft. I mean.. painting it in the first place is ridiculous.. These satellites are not permanent and they will improve. The service they could provide has the potential to lift billions out of extreme poverty, I think it’s worth a few years of suboptimal ground-based astronomy.. They have FCC-mandated deadlines to meet or they lose their frequency rights. "Just wait longer" is not actually an option. They would probably love it if they didn't have to include mostly-functional prototypes in the constellation.. Temporary, and occasional, streaks in astronomical photography isn't "breaking" in the same sense as a satellite becoming non-functional.. They won't add to the trash, not SpaceX or Amazon anyway, these two constellations will in low LEO where they naturally deorbit in less than 5 years.. Is complaining the only thing you know how to do?. i think its useful to divide monopolies in 3 groups:

-monopolies granted by the state like taxis or intelectual property

-natural monopolies like water or roads

-'practical' monopolies. this is like google, microsoft or amazon, where there can be competition but people just choose their product or service. this happens when you bring something new to the market

if their satellites are a 'practical' monopoly i think its alright. if its a natural one the government should do something

>Most markets inevitably drift towards total or regional monopolies, and the more expensive mote difficult market entry is, the harder

this depends on what monopoly it is and the problem is when regulations raise the cost of entry to the market. > You can use that logic in regards to every monopoly. The real world isn't quite so simple.
> 
> 

Monopolies only stay monopolies by engaging in monopolistic behavior (setting up regulatory blockers to prevent new entrants is the most common). Simply being a monopoly doesn't keep them a monopoly. Uber tried to engage in monopolistic behavior by cutting prices to extremely low levels, but they're going bankrupt doing it and there's already successful competitors like Lyft.. Didn't they they just switch from optical to Ku or Ka relaying?. > Tesla and SpaceX were not started by Musk

SpaceX is absolutely started by Musk. Tesla is not started by him, but he took Tesla from a startup to where it is today.

> Spend some time on an engineering forum if you want some opinions of Musk's ideas from people who have experience in the industries that he tries to get into.

That's the problem, those opinions were all proven to be false, Musk doesn't delivery on time, but he delivers eventually, which is all that matters.. There is a point of diminishing returns and we are quickly approaching that. My point is that there is already a ton of effort in mitigating this effect with far fewer satellites. With Starlink and other satellite constellations in the future, it's going to be bad.

This isn't just one or two grad students sorting through photos. The scale of the problem is only going to get worse.. Where I'm going is that the time scales of crossings are quite diferent from the time scales LSST is going after.  Therefore, from a signal-separation standpoint, the crossings do not interfere with time domain measurements, provided that you're resolving the time scales of interest.  

LSST already is planning to take observations in paired exposures (four per night, in two rapid pairs separated by hours).. .. The speed of light is always the same speed, light just travels a longer distance through fiber, in case of fiber it is around 30%, so light will travel in a 1 m fiber a distance of around 1.3 m. >Cover the sensor during flyby? How often do the starlink satellites transit the viewing area? In a 10h observation do the satellites ruin 30s of observation or 7h of observation? Genuine questions

We don't generally stack single 30 second exposures when we need hours worth of data. Read noise becomes a huge problem and you generally need individual exposures to be as long as is practical (usually limited by the brightest thing in your field, but sometimes by the stability of the telescope tracking).. Here's why that would be fundamentally impossible: http://www.deepskywatch.com/Articles/Starlink-sky-simulation.html. What do you mean by frame and buffer? This is not how a CCD works. We are not recording a "video" and stakking its frames. What happens is that the photons reaching the CCD are "translated" to electric charges in each pixel, which are read only in the end of the exposure time. So if something crosses the image even during just a small fraction of the exposure, it still ruins the whole image. It is done this way to minimize read out noise and to maximize the time in which the telescope is actually collecting data.. Nobody is questioning whether it's feasible. Technologically of course it is. The question is whether it's the *best* course of action for humanity vs. alternatives, and whether the tradeoffs are worth it. We'll see how the astronomy doomsaying plays out. If nobody criticized it before the launch, it's because they don't have crystal balls and did not anticipate how bright the satellites would be.

And in either case let's not kid ourselves. Most SpaceX fans could not care less what it does to ground-based observation. Even if it did 100% eliminate it somehow, most people wouldn't care because yay internet.. TMT will not go to Chile, I think they have enough sense to realize it's necessary to stay in the northern hemisphere.. That makes sense. Thank you for the answer.. There are plenty of less expensive scientific missions where cost of launch is like one third of total cost. Many missions with costs in $100-500m range. If anything, JWST and similar megaprojects are the exception.

>Never mind that, yaknow, the technology to build a comparably sized telescope to the best ground facilities in orbit doesn't currently exist and would need ridiculous amounts of R&D and testing.

And it is imperative that we do this R&D and testing as soon as possible. After the fiasco that is JWST, we must put things such as cost efficiency and quick iteration to the forefront of space research planning. I do think there is some HUGE cost reduction low hanging fruit available here, if only we are willing to pluck it.. It’s not a small part. Right now space stuff is expensive because it has to work the first time. If launches become cheap you can then afford to launch stuff that is less reliable as you can launch another one and have the overall cost be less then the “perfect” satellite. Plus if the rockets are cheap enough we might even be able to send people up and fix them again like what we did with Hubble multiple times.

If regular flights to the moon become possible we wood even move Earth telescopes there.. > But what about the ones that are already up there?

Only a small number of Starlinks are already up there, just a hundred or two, and they'll be replaced in 5 years

> And how do we know what effects the newly coated satellites will actually have?

Send one up and observe its effect.. They’re designed to only last a relatively short amount of time before burning up in the atmosphere. There very few of them and they will burn up in atmosphere within few years at most. Forgot how long they stay up but not very long.. They aren't that bright compared to most other satellites up there. OP doesn't even know if it's Starlink. They're simply assuming that it is.. and what about the others thousands of anothers satellites?. Well, that's why test launches exist &mdash; it's kinda impossible to foresee everything..   


  


Yes, but sir Elon Musk waits for nobody, he just goes on with his innovation, without considering any of the consequences.. Why is it not about a downside of all satellites? Why not discuss the problem in general?

Even if we look at future satellites alone this is not just Starlink. OneWeb wants to launch 2000 satellites, too. They just have 6 up so far, but that number will grow. Amazon wants to launch a few thousand.. SpaceX is responding by working on an experimental coating to make the satellites dimmer.

https://spaceflightnow.com/2019/12/09/spacex-to-experiment-with-less-reflective-satellite-coatings-on-next-starlink-launch/. Nothing wrong with extra scrutiny, but maybe it could be portrayed less as completely new phenomenon that will suddenly make all astronomical observations impossible with the next launch.. There are a number of players "threatening" to launch very large constellations.  Ironically, the rules force SpaceX to launch many satellites quickly otherwise they lose their allocation to the other guys.  There's good reason to believe that some of those other players aren't nearly as sensitive or sympathetic to the needs of the astronomy community as SpaceX.. I don't think this is true.  The reality is even if Starlink wasn't a thing, there are lots of companies planning space based internet service.  Musk is just the first to deploy.  OneWeb and Boeing as well as others will be doing this soon as well.  If this is something that is to be prevented, the government will have to step in and regulate it.  Otherwise it's the wild west, and space telescopes will be the only game in town for astronomy.  This is like our generation of lighted cites ruining dark skies.  Not sure it can be stopped without major intervention now.. Several other companies are working on extremely large constellations.. Threatening?  They're internet satellites not death rays.. This is BS. When the satellites are "bright", it is within +/- 1 hour of sunrise/sunset. That's how it works. And those are not typically times for optical telescope observations due to scattered sunlight in the upper atmosphere. This whole issue is a red herring ginned up by people who have an agenda that isn't really related to how science is actually performed. Otherwise this would have been an issue that would have been brought up at some point along the past 10,000 or so satellite launches in the past. These are tiny satellites weight a few hundred pounds with a small solar panel. Nothing like the typical comms or earth observation satellites which weigh tons, are the size of a school bus, and have solar panels that can be 50'-100' across. But you believe whatever you want. The fact remains that this entire thread is full of armchair astronomers and aerospace engineers who are just parroting something they read elsewhere on the Internet. I spent 10 years working in NASA HQ and the Johnson Space Center and I'm pretty sure I have a sliver of a clue about real versus imagined issues.. That makes sense, thank you!

And you say that 550km high would be problematic too? Are the existing sats at this altitude also visible and the only reason it’s ok is there are few of them? Or is there something particular about the Starlink sats?. Hyperloop is the best example of a complete failure. Its entire premise was to bring all the difficulties of space travel down to earth. After two complete failures while being tested in public, the 'further development' was relegated to student design competitions. 

Other failures include:

The boring company, a company that claims to solve the traffic problem by taking some cars down by elevator to a narrow tunnel. *But what about encouraging public transport, wouldn't that be far more effective at reducing traffic?* pfffft, musk hates public transport and thinks it's stupid because he's an elitist.

There's also his claim of using rocket flights to get anywhere on earth in under an hour. Economics and physics make this an utterly laughable claim unless you strictly only include flight time and not the days or weeks of extra arrangements and waiting necessary.

Neuralink is also likely to be a failure as it's primarily a PR booster for musk at the moment and his entire reason for founding it was that he got the idea from fucking science fiction.

And what about his claims of a tesla owned insurance company? That's going to crash and burn because yet again, musk is dipping his nose in to a sector in which he has little to no understanding, nor the capital required to make such a venture successful.. [deleted]. As for OneWeb I know because I know the company and have worked with them. I'm pretty sure I saw all that information in bits here and there across the web during the last few years but I cannot be bothered to track it down.

As for Starlink, you can easily check that current satellites have no satellite interconnectivity (which they currently announce for 2020).. SpaceX has no experience building satellites. This means they have to spend additional money to go through the learning curve.. I will repeat again. Satellites are probably the most straight-forward part in the whole internet constellation business. Setting up the ground network, regulatory bullshit and actually selling your capacity are by far the biggest issues to deal with.. Doesn’t starlink have 120? They have done 2 launches of 60 each..  RemindMe! 2 years "did elon do it?". So did Theranos. It dose. Light travels about 40% slower in current gen fiber optic cables than in a vacuum. 

https://youtu.be/giQ8xEWjnBs

http://www.m2optics.com/blog/bid/70587/Calculating-Optical-Fiber-Latency

If you have a source saying otherwise please post it.. Starlink's business plan is mainly devoted to low lag applications like trading, not to bringing Internet to the masses in the sparsely populated areas. The latter is mainly PR but not the reason for launching the satellites... And, yes, as an astronomer I have a stake in the whole thing here, but I'm analytical enough that I've read their materials.. It's not about the size of the antenna. Antennas are small. It's all the equipment that is behind the antenna that is the problem.. do you have any data for cost/ success rate for ariane?. It's easy to temporarily overtake commercial market if you are willing to have no profit margins. Other launch providers are in business with the intents of having some return on investment and also being able to hedge for downturns in the launch market. I have yet to see a shred of proof that SpaceX is making money.. Yes, geolo-grapho-magy.

[Edited]. ground telescopes will be cheaper in any case, not to mention that you can have advanced instruments on them (not radiation hardened) that you can replace as you see fit. it is too bad for the LSST, since it's just coming online. there were also proposals for 100m telescope, good luck getting that into orbit (Overwhelmingly Large Telescope). while it was canceled, one could assume that in time a similar telescope could be built (2050-2100 timeframe for example).. I mean, don’t you think for a deep space image at or close to limiting mag, that read noise would come into play? Genuine grad student astronomer question here. But they do give a fuck. They are actively working on improving their satellites and are in communication with astronomers to work on solutions.. No, I just don't cape for impractical billionaires that will stifle research for projects that have basically no reason to exist. There's enough trash in space.. Any large-scale monopoly of a finite, or hard to obtain resource is problematic. Whether that be food, water, electricity, medicine, or the internet.

When the dealer holds all the cards, you can never trust them to deal fairly, because they won't. Because they never do, and never have.

The world is largely becoming an corporate oligrachy and projects like this aren't helping to prevent that future. They are just solidifying it. 

----

There is no money in providing cheap internet to the poor. I'm not so naive to believe such a utopic and self-less dream.

The reason is simple, businesses have yet to dominate space and the first to do so will get rich from it.. [deleted]. I'm not the one claiming that I'm launching a vanity satellite internet project and then claiming the purpose is to "bring basic internet service to Africa".

However, since you're writing off the capabilities of an entire continent and generalizing all countries therein as "third world" and impossibly rife with insurmountable corruption, I suspect you have an interest in that portrayal and don't actually care about internet access either.. I am not a physics major but my understanding is that the speed of light is dependant on the medium it is passing through.

E.g. [Light speed reduction to 17 metres per second in an ultracold atomic gas](https://www.nature.com/articles/17561)

Granted, the fact that light bounces through fiber may effect the times even more. The end result is the same either way. Space is faster than fiber (for longer range communications). Couldn’t you deterministically switch to a higher sampling rate/lower single frame exposure  when you know a pass is probable? Dropping bright frames or using anti streaking post processing algorithms to clean the lines up? 

The latter is pretty commonplace in electron microscopy to clean up x-ray strikes on the detector during acquisition.

Also reading the detector out line by line instead of the entire frame at once? Couldn’t this help as well?. They absolutely do. The next candidate site after Hawaii is the Canary Islands for precisely that reason.. >And it is imperative that we do this R&D and testing as soon as possible. After the fiasco that is JWST, we must put things such as cost efficiency and quick iteration to the forefront of space research planning. I do think there is some HUGE cost reduction low hanging fruit available here, if only we are willing to pluck it.

I mean, I'd love this.  I'm confident it's possible, and probably wouldn't even take that long in the scheme of things.  My problem is that l think there's no chance in hell of getting the upfront funding to do this in more than a piecemeal way over decades.. > Right now space stuff is expensive because it has to work the first time.

That's part of it. But it's also a challenging environment, and the engineering to design for that environment doesn't just disappear once launch costs go down. It will *always* be more expensive to design things for space than for the ground.. When you say they'll be replaced, does that mean they're planned to come back down, or will they just be up there obsolete?. 5 years minimum.  Many are expected to last up to 7 to 10 years.  Fuel is probably the only limiting factor.. Send one up? They are sending up thousands.. no concern about this? I’m honestly asking I’m curious how concerned we should be about this constellation array and the potential for military or political abuse or hacking from unfriendly or friendly actors - how terrified should I be?. Funny no one else launched shiny satellites, maybe because they weren't so egotistical to think they knew better than everyone?. Exactly, why talk to lesser minds just because they're experts?. [deleted]. They are in GEO, not LEO. Way different.. Which I hope works well, but people should remember there is no real regulation for this, which is a problem. When Iridium was launched they signed an agreement to protect radio astronomy. In the end promises counted for nothing, the band they eventually picked was right on top of an important spectral line and they ignored the suggested specifications. Even if SpaceX do everything they can there is no guarantee the next company will, regulation is the way forward.. Starlink is the only constellation that:

* Is their own launch provider.
* Has reusable first-stage rockets.
* Will soon-enough launch \~400 satellites at a time (they can already do 60 which is double what OneWeb will be doing).
* Has construction of their first stages financed by a previous customer (they have an entire fleet that they didn't pay a dime of their own money to build).

Seems to me that OneWeb, Boeing, and Amazon may not be competitive out of the gate.  Amazon has the best shot, but they're very slow moving in comparison and have yet to put anything in orbit much less figure out reusability.

Starlink is going to dwarf these other systems for some time.. That depends. Existing satellites are definitely already an issue for astronomy, but different kinds of satellites affect astronomy differently 

The least problematic are geosynchronous sats(gps, TV, satcom etc), because they are distant, faint, and always in the same spot.

Slightly worse are satellites in medium level eccentric orbits (weather sats and the like)

The worst are objects in low earth orbit. But many of the existing satellites in low earth orbits are in polar orbits (surveillance satellites, for example). That makes them much less troublesome for observatories, and polar orbiters rarely emit RF.

The Starlink satellites have a multitude of negative qualities from the perspective of astronomy: They are low enough to be very bright, yet high enough to be visible a lot of the time. They are in inclined equatorial orbits, and there will be a lot of them. And they emit RF.

Regards. > Hyperloop is the best example of a complete failure.

Hyperloop wasn't even attempted. Elon put out a bunch of fanfare and released a white paper. So no, it's not a failure. I understand you have lots of issues with it (I do too) but it's not a failure if it wasn't ever even started/attempted. It lives on in a student competition though, which I think is great as having more outlets for cool engineering-based student project teams is always a good thing.

> The boring company, a company that claims to solve the traffic problem by taking some cars down by elevator to a narrow tunnel. 

Boring company is still going and hasn't failed. Again, not failed, currently ongoing.

> But what about encouraging public transport, wouldn't that be far more effective at reducing traffic? pfffft, musk hates public transport and thinks it's stupid because he's an elitist.

Public transport, especially on the west coast is utter shit. It's no surprise he's not a fan. I'm not a fan either. If we could reform it to be something like Japan's transport system, then I'd be a fan. Making it clean and kicking out the homeless that live in the stations would be a great start, but cities don't even want to do that. Elon can't fix that.

> There's also his claim of using rocket flights to get anywhere on earth in under an hour. Economics and physics make this an utterly laughable claim unless you strictly only include flight time and not the days or weeks of extra arrangements and waiting necessary.

This hasn't failed and is on-going. The economics and physics pans out quite well actually, I suggest you actually run some numbers rather than putting out pithy statements. This is a physics subreddit. Also where are you inventing "days or weeks of extra arrangements" from?

> Neuralink is also likely to be a failure as it's primarily a PR booster for musk at the moment and his entire reason for founding it was that he got the idea from fucking science fiction.

The people he's hired are the real stuff. I suggest you watch the presentation that was done and skip the parts where Musk talks. They've already done experimentation on Monkeys. What they've been focusing on is already a market where there's multiple competing companies. It's not some new area that doesn't exist. Again, not failed, currently ongoing.

> And what about his claims of a tesla owned insurance company? That's going to crash and burn because yet again, musk is dipping his nose in to a sector in which he has little to no understanding, nor the capital required to make such a venture successful.

https://www.tesla.com/insurance

If you're going to write random statements I suggest you make sure it doesn't actually exist already. Again, not failed, ongoing and already functioning.. SpaceX plans keep changing. At one point they were going to have satellite to satellite laser links as well, but those have been descoped for now. All launches so far have been to 550km and there's no knowledge of that changing in the future so far.. The Wikipedia page is incredibly outdated, Elon’s Twitter is more up to date.. Has SpaceX ever significantly missed a goal? If they have a goal set, the good money is on them accomplishing it. Or did the rest of the world not notice that every time they try to do something that all the experts call “impossible” they do it?. >On the other hand, SpaceX has launched the satellites that (and I am willing to bet on that) will be only for show

Since Elon already used one of these demo sats to send a tweet they are hardly *only* for show, so you already lost that bet. They are test platforms. SpaceX designed and built their own sats as well. Something you think they need to use "an experienced company" for? They've already built and launched, what 40? of them. With another 40 set to launch this month. Seems like they're doing ok on their own.

 SpaceX has most definitely been going through a ton of regulatory processes yet you act like it is only OneWeb that has done any of this? 

I would be very hesitant calling their interconnectivity "vaporware" just because it's not up there right now. I haven't seen anything that says they can't have a working demo of that up in the next year either. December 2020 is still 2020. 

The "experts" also said it was "impossible" to reuse an orbital rocket booster and still have a useful payload. Now they are all scrambling to catch up. 

I hope OneWeb puts up a competing platform but I would've thought people would be more reluctant to say Elon won't deliver when he has delivered on pretty much everything else.. They do now, and before that they had plenty of experience building spacecraft. If you look at hope long it normally takes a conventional company to develope and build satellites through the usual channels, then it's pretty clear that SpaceX is moving at breakneck pace.. Right because I can just launch a rocket with no regulatory issues?. Could be, i just googled real quick. Sure, but Theranos didn't produce anything, SpaceX is launching Starlink right now, which is why astronomers are complaining.. > Starlink's business plan is mainly devoted to low lag applications like trading, not to bringing Internet to the masses in the sparsely populated areas

Source?. A lot of people in this post clearly don't understand science well.. It’s true that a pizza box sized antenna is much cheaper than fiber for many areas. That’s what was pointed out and what you seemed to disagree with.. Do you have the faintest idea what kind of equipment is in your cellphone right now?

Or how fantastically complex and bulky it would have been 15 years ago?. Success rates are excellent. The costs used to be more than twice Falcon. They recently announced they would be a preemptively cutting costs by 40% in anticipation of the Ariane 6 coming out in 2020. I’m not sure whether that was all profit, or if they’re just being forced to lower their cost because they weren’t competitive anymore with SpaceX, but regardless, I think the fact that they’re 40% cheaper than they were a few years ago Literally proves my point that SpaceX is lowering costs significantly.


https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2018-rocket-cost/. > It's easy to temporarily overtake commercial market if you are willing to have no profit margins. Other launch providers are in business with the intents of having some return on investment and also being able to hedge for downturns in the launch market. I have yet to see a shred of proof that SpaceX is making money.

Whether the company makes net profit for investors is only relevant to potential investors. All the matters for everyone else is whether they can make enough money to continue what they're doing, which obviously is the case. And investors obviously still are interested as they continue to have to turn away investment when they do funding rounds.. Modern EMCCD cameras have under 1 e^- read noise.  With such a camera, a sequence of *N* exposures yields about as much noise as *N* photons (one photon per exposure), which is a pretty low level.  At those kinds of levels, photon noise from terrestrial airglow becomes important.. They only care because astronomers raised a big stink. I can think of some great masters research for coming up with algorithmic methods of avoiding satellite streaks in imagery, though that research has likely already been done considering this isn't a new problem.

Why are you falsely implying that controlled and functioning satellites are trash? This goes against all international definitions of orbital debris.. All the post processing in the world can only do so much to clear out bloom from saturated pixels, unfortunately.  Some instruments also suffer from image persistence, and it's hard to dither if half the chip is compromised. 

>Also reading the detector out line by line instead of the entire frame at once? Couldn’t this help as well?

It is my understanding that all CCDs work this way as-is.  No, all our detectors aren't CCDs, but some of those others have very complicated readout schemes for various and sundry reasons. (I don't want to say too much more for fear of misspeaking -- an instrument builder I am not). I think his point was that subdividing a single long exposure into many short exposures is exactly the problem, as you are compounding read-out noise with each new frame. Even if it looks like only a little bit of noise, cameras nowadays are fantastically sensitive and it only takes a little bit of noise to drastically reduce your SNR.

I've also worked in electron microscopy, specifically for a company that develops CCD imaging systems for that purpose. If you work at a TEM lab at a university of industry research lab, there's a chance you've used one of them! The cameras we use are the exact same cameras and (with few exceptions) sensors used for astronomical purposes.. they will slow down and burn up in the atmosphere. They will be actively deorbited, by firing the ion engine to reduce the altitude to less than 300km, which will cause it to burn up in the atmosphere in a few months. Also since it's in a low orbit to start with (550km), even if you don't actively deorbit it, it will come down by itself due to atmosphere friction in less than 5 years.. They are in low earth orbit,even if you leave them there they will slow down due to atmospheric drag, the concern about a satellite staying there is in much higher orbits where drag is almost non existent and thus they stay on robot for possibly thousands of years.. They’re in LEO, the satellites are only designed to be up for 3-5 years before falling back down and burning up.. Star link satellites have ion drives to de orbit themselves at the end of their life time. They're only sending up 1,500 initially, they'll only expand the network if it's successful in bringing in revenue. It's pretty much for certain that the military will be a major user of this network, there's just no way around it, Iridium's biggest customer is also the military. Not sure about political abuse, it's just a communication network, you don't have to use it, in fact if you live in the cities you won't be, it's mostly for the rural areas.. > no one else launched shiny satellites

Are you sure about that?. I think his point is that this is hardly going to be the last mass launch.  And for the people in support of it, claiming this is starlink’s problem detracts from the conversation which should be about these operations as a whole.. > Can you seriously not hear a criticism of Musk without chiming in to ensure everyone knows the positives, with a little whataboutism sprinkled in? Is that what this is about?

What's wrong with ensuring everyone knows the positives? It's essential for people to know both the pro and con in order to make up their mind.. [deleted]. I think the problem is that North Americans HATE their telecommunications companies with a burning passion. Starlink is the first opportunity for a company to give a big ole middle finger to these legacy companies who have a monopoly over our ability to communicate with one another, and have prevented competition through  government bribery. People are prioritizing the potential upset that Starlink could bring to the industry, over the disruption of science.. On the other hand, can you not look at a technical achievement by Musk and his teams without immediately casting about for all the negatives while ignoring the exact same issues from other companies? Hypocrisy much?. Weighing the positives against the negatives is totally relevant. Necessary in a discussion, in fact. Can you seriously not hear praise about Musk without chiming in to ensure nobody is even allowed to play devil's advocate much less try to defend something on the bases of merit? Is that what this is about?. No, traditional communication satellites are in GEO, but this new wave of LEO constellations (including OneWeb, Amazon and Starlink) are all in LEO. Amazon is basically the same altitude as Starlink, at around 500km, OneWeb is only slightly higher at 1200km.. Time for NASA to form the FAA of Space? Because they aren't doing it now. I have seen them attempt to regulate stuff but that has been within things they have ownership of.. Agreed. I just think any regulations will have to encompass the whole industry. We can’t go after starlink exclusively.. >Hyperloop wasn't even attempted.

Are you forgetting the utter failures that were the public tests? That's why it wasn't taken further, because it was shown to be utterly pointless. It introduced so many unnecessary risks and challenges to provide a half baked 'solution' to a problem. I'd also rather that students worked on something that is actually beneficial, not some elitist, ineffective mode of transport.

>Boring company is still going and hasn't failed. Again, not failed, currently ongoing.

The boring company's most famous project is the tunnel under LA. This tunnel is laughably short and totally impractical for use by cars. The proposed idea for their use is also a terrible solution to traffic. How does lowering a car to a tiny underground tunnel to travel in single file solve traffic? And one of the few claims to fame that they have is that they sell the dirt they dig up, oh what an innovation.

>Public transport, especially on the west coast is utter shit. It's no surprise he's not a fan. I'm not a fan either. If we could reform it to be something like Japan's transport system, then I'd be a fan. Making it clean and kicking out the homeless that live in the stations would be a great start, but cities don't even want to do that. Elon can't fix that.

This is the exact elitist shit that I'm talking about. Instead of working to improve what we know works, musk instead advocates for 'public' transit which involves as few people as possible because he thinks mass transit is gross.

>The economics and physics pans out quite well actually, I suggest you actually run some numbers rather than putting out pithy statements. This is a physics subreddit. Also where are you inventing "days or weeks of extra arrangements" from?

A rocket carrying fuel with an explosive yield of kilotons would not be allowed to launch, fly or land near any significant population centre. So that severely restricts where you can travel to and from, thus meaning that it doesn't go anywhere in the world in under an hour if you include all the extra travel time to actually get from launch pads to your destination. 

Additionally, 'anywhere in the world' means anywhere where the weather is safe enough for a rocket launch and landing. 

As for the economics, how in the hell do you expect maybe a couple of dozen tickets priced at the same price as an equivalent plane ticket to pay for all of the logistics and technical complexity involved in a fucking rocket flight? How do you expect so little money to pay for even the fuel? 

>What they've been focusing on is already a market where there's multiple competing companies. It's not some new area that doesn't exist. Again, not failed, currently ongoing.

In terms of the goals musk talks about, it will undoubtedly be a complete failure. As with everything, he talks out of his ass about things he's not knowledgeable on and sets utterly ridiculous goals which are doomed to fail.

https://amp.businessinsider.com/why-elon-musks-plan-to-give-us-superhuman-brains-is-doomed-to-fail-2018-11

>and already functioning

And how will musk magically make his insurance premiums cheaper than those offered by companies with orders of magnitude more experience? Teslas cost more to insure because they are a notorious pain in the ass to repair or replace. Their shitty QA means that they're more likely to need repairs or replacement parts but their ineptitude in producing the necessary parts means that it's expensive and time consuming to do repairs or replacements. Insurance companies aren't stupid, they know exactly how to price insurance so that they still make money, Musk's insurance will be far more likely to lose money in the long run if the premiums are cut by as much as he claims they will be.. > Has SpaceX ever significantly missed a goal?

For example.

https://www.wired.com/2017/02/spacex-plans-launch-humans-around-moon-2018/. > The "experts" also said it was "impossible" to reuse an orbital rocket booster and still have a useful payload. 

Who said that?

Edit: Looks like this simple question is very offensive to some cultists.. See for example https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/spacex-starlink-satellite-internet-how-it-works-2019-5-1028209419
which says
> Financial institutions would also have a lot to gain: Starlink could relay > information about faraway markets significantly faster than modern 
> technologies permit.

In addition:
> Starlink could bring cheap, fast internet to remote areas, airplanes, ships, and cars, plus make international teleconferencing and online gaming nearly lag-free.

This is the same trick again: The PR is geared towards gamers, but the other applications are big, commercial applications, including military applications. And indeed, the first customer to starlink is the US air force, which wants to use this for high speed connections to planes, see https://www.reuters.com/article/us-spacex-starlink-airforce/musks-satellite-project-testing-encrypted-internet-with-military-planes-idUSKBN1X12KM and https://spacenews.com/spacex-plans-to-start-offering-starlink-broadband-services-in-2020/. Yes, and run of the mill cell phone will cost you $400-500. Space internet terminals are somewhere above those prices, up to $1000. Servicing costs are much much higher though, since it is custom built equipment that can be maintained only by specially trained staff. Compare that to your typical cable router that probably costs $10-20 to make and you don't have to worry much about servicing cost, since you can just throw it away and get another one.. We're supposed to be irrationally angry.. Bc the ones opposed don't want to talk about both just the negatives. Hmmmm. Did you not read my next sentence?. They too will become the monopoly supplier to rural areas, the cycle repeats.. [deleted]. Complaining that "no one complains about [other companies who aren't yet causing the same problem] for some reason" is retarded, and does not add as much to the conversation as what you're talking about.. Enforced by SPACE FORCE. A missed timeline, sure. It is rocket science. But let me know if they don’t accomplish that goal soon.. Everyone interviewed at the ESA, ULA, and Roscosmos. None of them thought it was possible, at least publicly. They had new rockets in development and none of them were planned on being in any way reusable until SpaceX landed their first booster. Then they all went back to the drawing boards and started trying to build in reusability.. So your own sources contradict you.  You have no evidence that 'Starlink's business plan is mainly devoted to low lag applications like trading'.  


Instead you've just established that a globally available, low latency, high bandwidth internet service will find uses to transmit data globally, with low latency and high bandwidth.  Surprise!    


Of course traders will be interested in this (as they want to transmit data... wait for it... globally with low latency!) but that doesn't contradict bringing internet for the masses nor prove that that's the 'main' business case.. A: you can get a cheap cellphone for <100 easily

2: in the 80s phones we're godawful expensive and huge.

Compare a Motorola car phone to a modern cell for both price and capability.

Hell compare a 90s pentium to a modern cell phone.

I work in semiconductors, we are very good at integration at scale.. [deleted]. Excited for the show of the same name!. SpaceX has no plans whatsoever to launch humans around the moon at the moment.

But more saliently, the launch around the moon was a PR stunt that's not at all important to SpaceX's business anyway, while this is more of a colossal fuck up and less of a missed timeline, let me quote the most recent OIG report of NASA with respect to crew dragon.

>Boeing and SpaceX each face significant safety and technical challenges with parachutes, propulsion, and launch abort systems that need to be resolved prior to receiving NASA authorization to transport crew to the ISS. The complexity of these issues has already caused at least a 2-year delay in both contractors’ development, testing, and qualification schedules and may further delay certification of the launch vehicles by an additional year. Consequently, given the amount, magnitude, and unknown nature of the technical challenges remaining with each contractor’s certification activities, CCP will continue to be challenged to establish realistic launch dates.

[What we found on the first real page of the audit.](https://oig.nasa.gov/docs/IG-20-005.pdf). > Everyone interviewed at the ESA, ULA, and Roscosmos. None of them thought it was possible, at least publicly.

Bullshit. None was thinking that it can be **profitable**. There's still lots of skeptics who thinks so even today. Hell, I vividly remember Musk himself saying, that reusable Falcon 9 breaks even with expendable one at 30-something launches a year. And it's obvious now, that Starlink is the way for SpaceX to even get to this number of launches.

And to be completely fair, we still don't know anything about SpaceX finances. Well, we know that Dragon 2 crewed mission to ISS costs 430 million per launch, we know some costs for laucnhes from SpaceX site (which are not even close to final numbers, customer currently pays), and that's about it.. But you couldn't find a single one of those interviews? This remarkable photo shows a single atom trapped by electric fields. Shot by David Nadlinger (University of Oxford). This picture was taken through a window of the ultra-high vacuum chamber that houses the trap.. nan. Anyone have any idea what sort of scale this is at?. I'm not smart enough to know how this particular photograph is possible.. [deleted]. Damn even this Atom is single on V-day. Stupid question to those who are saying this isn't the atom visualized. If the atom is radiating photons and so we see the light coming from it, how is this any different than saying we can't see the sun since whatever image of the sun we have is from radiation. 

Not being a contrarian. School me please. . How do they know they have exactly one atom there, and not 2 or 3?. Was this image captured using an electron microscope?. It’s a [TRAP!](https://imgur.com/gallery/IK5554U) .  Atom of what? .  If everything is made from atoms, and they're all the same size, why can we only see one in the picture? Shouldn't it look like a ball pit? Sorry for sounding like a retard, but I'm pretty retarded. Any real answer here? . Zoom and Enhance!. THAT ATOM HAS A FAMILY. AND YOU HAVE IT TRAPPED!!. You are not seeing the actual atom. You are seeing the light that the atom produces when stimulated by a laser beam. And this is a long exposure photo.. What is that an atom of? . Electric **and** magnetic fields right? By Earnshaw’s theorem?. Interesting that it appears as a blurry solid sphere. 

Why? . [deleted]. this looks vaporwave as hell. Why can't we see the atoms in the metal things on either side? Or in the black and white bits?. Would one be able to see it without any magnification? . Why such reduced image quality compared to the original?. Now split it.. This looks like it belongs on r/surrealmemes. what is the exposure time on this badboy?. Bright purple dot. Carl Sagan would have narrated this perfectly! . Does it pop in and out of existence like _What the bleep do we know?_ says? . in true color, what color was it?  yellowey shiny metal?. Quick question. Just what's the point of trapping single ions/atoms from a more practical perspective, if that makes any sense?. If you zoom in very closely you can almost tell that if you pay attention and see that it is just a photograph of an atom. Posted on reddit for everyone to see. . What kind of Atom is this?. nasa is die，u will be in touch by spacex. What the heck is an ultra high vacuum chamber. Isn't a full vacuum a full vacuum? Is there another subset of ULTRA VACUUMS? Or is it just trying to be clickbait.

Edit: I now know ultra vacuums are the real deal. Super interesting.. Do atoms have shadows?. [deleted]. [deleted]. can we make holograms with these glowing dots?. See your not the only one alone on Valentine's Day.. wasn't this idea used in angels and demons with antimatter?. It's MUCH larger than the atomic scale.

The atom is an infinitely small point in the center of this visible dot.

This visible dot is just the scattering of radiation from the atom. The atom is just very very very shinny.

Source: there are trapped ions experiments next to my lab.

Edit: infinitely -> seow small

. From what I saw in another thread, that's about 2 mm between the diodes. So you're not actually seeing an atom, you're seeing the light emitted from it. It's like seeing a star in the night sky: you're not actually seeing the star, just the light it emits (the star in that night sky is also an infinitely small point in the center of its own visible dot in the sky, at least from our perspective here on Earth).. The ion gap here is 2mm across. . We really need a banana for scale.. The atom is receiving energy from a laser that's causing it to emit light. With the naked eye it would look far dimmer or not be visible at all, so they used a long exposure shot to make it more visible.. I'm a physicist and even I don't understand it.. You take a picture of some photons and tell people that it's a single atom.. The atom happened to emit enough visible spectrum radiation to flip a single pixel in the photo. Basically, luck. . This was just posted yesterday. It’s literally three posts below this one on the front page. . TIL Fluorescence microscopy isn't real, and no images taken by such a microscope actually show real objects.

-----

It's no different.  Like any case in which you're imaging something smaller than the resolving power of your optical system, you get a bright spot defined by a combination of the point spread function of your optical system and however much the target object is moving.  Doesn't matter if it's stars, proteins, or atoms.. You're right that photons are how we see the world around us, but the distinction is that atoms are microscopic, so photons can be misleading in terms of "looks". An atom will emit photons, but it doesn't have a well-defined "surface" because its farthest extent, the electrons, aren't really solid objects. Atoms aren't tiny little balls with electrons orbiting them. So what you can see here is a non-zero solid angle created by photons emitted at slightly different angles, not the atom itself. The magnitude of the scattering of the photons is greater than the size of the atom, so the "blur" around the edges is larger than the object itself. . It is an atom visualized - it's just an incredibly blurry picture of a very bright atom. By any reasonable measure this is definitely "a picture of an atom.". We can see the sun. We can't see or distinguish every single atom of the sun. Just like we can't see or distinguish the atom in this picture (can you tell me on which part of the resolution limited circle of its radiation it is localized on?)

Sensationalist title is sensationalist.. How many photons are in 1 atom and how do they get there? . If you shine a properly tuned laser at the atom, and carefully measure the rate that photons scatter from the atom, you will alternately some consistent rate of scattering, punctuated with little pauses where it does not scatter at all. 

The consistent rate is when the atom is rapidly cycling between a particular ground state and a particular (rapidly decaying) excited state. But sometimes, the state may decay to an intermediate, or very slightly different ground state. In that case, the laser isn't tuned just right to excite it, and the scattering goes dark for a moment. Depending on the particular ion used, those pauses might be milliseconds or seconds.

The fact that there are exactly *two* possible levels of brightness tells you that there is only one atom there. If you look at a graph of the brightness over time and see *three* levels, you'll know that there are two ions (Both ions bright, one ion bright, both dark), and so forth.

Source: Former single ion trapper.. Two ways: One, the spectrum emitted by that atom will be subtly shifted by interactions with other atoms of its kind, and this can be detected. Two, even if the spectroscopy wasn't done, ion traps aren't novel technology and we know how to trap single ions in these devices, so we can be confident that if we did it right, there's one atom there.. No an ordinary camera.

It's due to photon emission. I assume the atom is moving slightly and that accounts fir the size which is clearly much bigger than an atom. Strontium. It's right in the articles.. According to some of the people that work on ion traps, the answer is "yes.. ish".

In short, you slowly turn down the trapping power on your trap and wait for all but one to leak out.  So, rather tautologically, it stops looking like a ball pit once it stops looking like a ball pit.

Unless you mean "why is only the one Strontium atom so bright", in which case the answer is "because they aimed a Strontium-tuned excitation laser at it to specifically make that one atom emit lots of light".. The photo was taken in an ultra high vacuum, so there are very few free-moving atoms within the chamber. Of those that are present, if they have slightly different masses or charges then you can very easily use electric and magnetic fields to separate them out. Then, we can add on to the fact that atoms will reflect and emit light in levels and directions very particular to the type of atom, and you can see how it's possible to isolate a single atom for the photo. . Only one of the atoms in the image is emitting light enough to be seen - and it's the only atom in the trap. Scientists have known for awhile now how to trap single atoms via EM fields. That dot isn't even *close* to the "size" of an atom - if it were the size of the earth an actual nucleus would probably be a grain of sand.. The title is somewhat exaggerated. Like others have said, this is a long-exposure photo of light emitted by a single atom. Think of how a piece of iron glows when you heat it. An actual atom would not be able to be detected by any light camera, you'll need an electron microscope. Also atoms of different elements are not the same size, see [atomic radius.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_radius). Isn't that what seeing is?. Not sure, but helium is a big atom.. Depending on the type of ion trap, it could be static E and B fields, or non-static electric fields.. In this case there's a quadrupole which is confining the atom in one dimension via magnetic field. It's rapidly oscillating to swap that confinement between that dimension and a second one. The third dimension of confinement comes from a static electric field.

Not sure what Earnshaw's theorem is; I'm just a UHV chemist.. I don’t think we should overthink the structure with this photo because the long exposure could have added far more blurring than the atom itself.. The atom needs to be held in a potential well, but even so it is never stationary (it can't be) so it oscillates back and forth. . There is a single atom being held between the diodes. A violet light is shining on this atom, and it is absorbing and emitting the light. This "reflected" light is what is visible in this photo. So it is a macroscopic picture of a single atom. So it's not like being able to see atoms in general, but it is literally seeing a single atom. So it's not like a game-changer or anything, but it is really cool.. Combination of the movement of the target atom during the exposure, and the Point Spread Function of the optical system gathering the image.. The atom is confined within an oscillating magnetic field. There's a saddle point in the potential energy surface created by the quadrupoles which holds the atom in one dimension - then the voltages are rapidly reversed so that the confinement alternates in two dimensions. The last dimension is just a static electric field created by the two electrodes. 

So the atom is moving/oscillating within a very, very small area, and emitting light all the while, meaning over a macroscopic time the average of the photons we detect coming off the atom is a circle, brighter near the center.. >Needs more jpeg

[There you go!](http://morejpeg.com/Image/View/ca497af3-8c11-e811-80f0-9d5eaea625ba)

^^^I ^^^am ^^^a ^^^bot. The Strontium atom is being excited by a laser (tuned to specifically excite strontium).   So it's emitting a whole bunch of light, while nothing else is.. This is at a WAY larger scale than those atoms would be visible. Between the electrodes is only 2mm across. 

If the tiny dot of light were the size of the *earth*, the nucleus of the atom would be as small as a grain of sand, or even smaller. 
. We can see them, they just emit so much light that we cant see them individually . The human eye can sense light as dim as 100 photons. A single atom can't put out 100 photons simultaneously so it would not be visible to us. No. It isn't just trying to be clickbait.  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultra-high_vacuum. No vacuum is a “real vacuum”. Gas pressures have a huge dynamic range in experimental physics. Vacuum is classified into a few categories (high vacuum, ultra high vacuum, etc.) depending on the pressure of the residual gas. It’s not clickbait, it’s real terminology.. The vacuum of space probably has more particle density than the vacuum shown above. A large contributor to particles in a manmade vacuum is the material of the vacuum chamber itself. Particles will randomly evaporate off the container and into the vacuum.. I'm a UHV (Ultra-high Vacuum) chemist. It's impossible to achieve a true vacuum because at low enough pressures even steel with outgas. There are grades of vacuum - at or below about 1x10^-9 torr is considered UHV, and you need special pumps to achieve it. . they can absorb light so yes. Strontium. It's right in the articles.. they're happier than most labs. If you mean putting things in electromagnetic traps then yes, it was.. I posted this on the last picture but thought I’d post here as well. To give everyone an idea of how small an atom is. A penny compared to the size of the moon is the same as an atom to a penny. . Then again, all pictures of stuff are radiation scattering off the object. . If I understood the previous post/thread, what we are seeing is light *emitted* by the single atom when it's "stimulated" with a laser, not the normal way a photograph works - recording the light *reflected* off an object/surface.

Because of that light scattering, limits of optics, limits of the sensor, etc. the dot of light appears much larger than it really is.  But it's still amazing that it's a "record" of a single atom being held in place.

Definitely correct me if I'm wrong!. I wouldn’t say the atom is “infinitely” small. Just very small :). i swear i can see a slightly darker pixel in the middle of the shiny dot. Atoms aren't infinently small. They have a size. The singularity at the center of a black hole is.. > The atom is an infinitely small point

Uh, no, not at all. Atom is a very real thing, infinitely small things aren't real.. So... this is not a "photo of a single atom" at all but rather a "photo of radiation scattering off of a single atom"? 

Why do headline writers hate science? What did it ever do to them?

Edit: I guess all photographs are technically images of light scattering off of objects... but in the case of macro scale photographs you can actually discern the object. To me that seems like an important difference. If I take a picture of the light scattering off of your face from 150,000 miles away and it looks like a pinkish point of light, it isn't really a picture of your face is it?. \>infinitely small

no. Enhance! .  A point emitter like an atom will appear as a disk who's diameter is the smallest dot the lens can make - unless there is some other limiting factor. . seow?. To be fair, anything we see is just the scattering of radiation from it.. I mean isn’t everything we see just the light emitted/reflected from that thing? . I’ve been wondering exactly how much of the ‘glare’ is actual physical star?! Any more details on this? . For all intents and purposes you're seeing the atom - it's just glowing very brightly. Even so it takes a 30s exposure to resolve it.

Still, you don't say "I took a picture of the light being reflected from a house, not the house.". In the sense that I'm not looking at my phone right now, but the light emitted from it? 

... lol. Im on it! https://i.imgur.com/WR9edPi.jpg . I say I'm a physicist sometimes because I have a degree in physics, and then times like this I'm like "man I ain't no real physicist.". I'm a chemist and I can spot you on this one if you really want to know. I did some research after seeing the picture.. This is also true of, for example, a picture of a guitar being played. The guitar is vibrating, but we still consider it a "picture of a guitar." More similarly, we claim to take "pictures of stars" and this is correct despite us actually imaging the photons being emitted by the star under specific conditions.

I think it's perfectly reasonable to call this a "picture of an atom" . Photons are bits of light. They aren't stored in the atom, they're produced by the atom when it needs to get rid of some energy.. Thank you! Your second point is perhaps not as satisfying to me - how do we know ion traps are reliable in the first place? Does it go back to spectroscopy or are there other ways they were tested as well?. No, it's just really bright for a single atom, and the camera cannot resolve it at its actual size. I'm sure if you got up close and looked at it with your eyes it would look smaller than in this picture. You're probably right in this case, but Rydberg atoms can be several hundred microns in diameter.. > The atom is receiving energy from a laser that's causing it to emit light. With the naked eye it would look far dimmer or not be visible at all, so they used a long exposure shot to make it more visible.

Comment by /u/elmanchosdiablos . How is that possible? Isn’t the wavelength of visible light way larger than the size of an atom? . can i touch it?. Yes, saw it afterwards. thanks friend. . That is exactly what seeing is. . Strontium 

Wikipedia:
Strontium is the chemical element with symbol Sr and atomic number 38. An alkaline earth metal, strontium is a soft silver-white yellowish metallic element that is highly reactive chemically. The metal forms a dark oxide layer when it is exposed to air. Strontium has physical and chemical properties similar to those of its two vertical neighbors in the periodic table, calcium and barium. It occurs naturally mainly in the minerals celestine, strontianite and is mined mostly from the first two of these. While natural strontium is stable, the synthetic 90Sr isotope is radioactive and is one of the most dangerous components of nuclear fallout, as strontium is absorbed by the body in a similar manner to calcium. Natural stable strontium, on the other hand, is not hazardous to health.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strontium

. Nonstatic electric implies magnetic. . Does the magnetic field trap the ion in a circle, with the electric field repelling it upwards? Is that how this works? 

Legitimately curious. 

-AP physics II student. . Earnshaw's theorem shows that you can't keep a charge in equilibrium through static fields alone.. Yeah, I’m thinking the same thing. 

I just can’t wrap my brain around how much empty space is in the atom and was naively hoping this would help me. . The structure of the atom is also far too small to be resolved in visible light with classical optics. Without going to [the near-field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Near-field_scanning_optical_microscope_) or [things with a smaller wavelength](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electron_microscope), the best we can hope to do is see the atom as a structure-less point of light.

The blurring here could be a combination of movement of the atom in the trap during exposure, overexposure, and/or optical imperfections in the camera.. > The human eye can sense light as dim as 100 photons.

... within approximately 100ms.  A single atom can easily emit enough light to meet human optical triggering criteria.

For comparison, a 5 mW laser outputs roughly 10^16 photons per second.  If we figure you can see the dot from that laser from 50' away (on a perfect white surface), and human eyes have a roughly 2mm acceptance area, that's clearly seeing a response from ~ 10^8 photons per second.  As it takes approximately 5x 10^(-8) seconds for a photon to cross that 50' gap, we can expect that the vast majority of the time, there is only a single photon in-flight from that wall-spot towards your eye.. Wow. Glad to know there's more! Really cool.. Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultra-high_vacuum
***
^HelperBot ^v1.1 ^/r/HelperBot_ ^I ^am ^a ^bot. ^Please ^message ^/u/swim1929 ^with ^any ^feedback ^and/or ^hate. ^Counter: ^148717. Huh. That's really neat. Thanks!. > No vacuum is a “real vacuum”.

Every vacuum is a real vacuum, and they are all special and deserve love.

....

Some vacuums are just a little harder than others.. awyiss.

not sure why i got downvoted for asking, guess i won't have enough imaginary internet points to feed my family this week.. both the moon and a penny are about the size of my thumb. I thought atoms were smaller than that. That actually seems kinda big for an atom. So however many pennies it would take to cover a cross section of the moon would be how many atoms it would take to cover the face of a penny.... This blows my mind. . Nah, it's  all just input to our brains-in-jars.    "I couldn't  trust the thinking of a man who takes the Universe - if there is one - for granted."

*This is the KOMO-news traffic copter.  There seems to be some kind of diversion on the thread.   No backups yet, but we'll keep you posted. Back to you in the studio, kaspar42.*

. Was the picture taken with an election microscope?. You are correct; However, semantics aside, atoms are actually smaller than visible wavelengths; thus, we are literally incapable of seeing atoms directly, all methods are indirect. With that in mind, since this light is being given off of a single atom, and we can directly see it, while it does stretch the limits of what constitutes photography, this is quite likely also the closest we will ever get, to seeing an atom.. [deleted]. That’s jpegium.. Which of the darker two pixels are you revering to? The purple, or the blue one?

https://imgur.com/dyM9LJa.png . That would be its conscience.. Its the Dwarf in the flask. Yes, it's there if you Ctrl+Plus it. I bet it's because that atom is actually zooming around, painting a little sphere with its light traces.. Theoretically you are right about singularities, however most probably they aren't real either. . I meant that figuratively.  They are about 0.1 nm of diameter.. The point is it’s a single atom. . It's about as valid as being able to say that we can see individual stars when our eyes still resolve them as twinkly points of light.

Photo's legit.. 

>To me that seems like an important difference.

seems very arbitrary to me


 . People keep using that word.   I do not think it means what they think it means.. Yes, but as such scale is misleading.. Yes but the further away (in distance or scale while in a medium like atmosphere) that object is, the more diffuse and scattered that light becomes, making it look larger than it is. You're essentially seeing a cloud of photons around the atom in that image, and not the atom itself.. It's not "glare" per se, but the fact that the surface of the star is small enough across to be [well below the diffraction limit of our eyes.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffraction-limited_system)

Put simply, because light is a wave, you can't focus something to an infinitely small point, even if you were above the atmosphere, perfectly focused, and your exposure set so that you got no glare.

Thus, if two points of light (say, a point on either edge of the star's disk) are separated by a small enough angle, your eyes can't separate them and will see them as one, single point of light. That means that while all the light you saw came from the surface of the star, none of the surface itself is visible to you. It's all completely blurred out into a single point of light.

[With some tricks and a large enough aperture, we can directly image the surface of a star,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHARA_array) but in order for you to be able to do that with your eyes, you'd have to have eyes that are several meters across, but still optically perfect.

[We can also build up images of stars with some fancy math in some cases, too.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doppler_imaging) If a star is part of an eclipsing binary pair, [we can use that to our advantage as well.](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8218389/?reload=true) The latter is also how we built [some of our best images of Pluto (by using eclipses with Charon) prior to the New Horizons probe.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/001910359290129U). Barely any of it that we can see with the naked eye, thanks to the atmosphere diffusing the incoming light. It was hit with a laser to emit light.

From the article: "The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) in the UK today announced the winning photos of its national science photography competition. Nadlinger’s grand prize photo shows an atom as a speck of light between two metal electrodes placed about 2mm (0.078in) apart. In the center of the picture, a small bright dot is visible – a single positively-charged strontium atom. It is held nearly motionless by electric fields emanating from the metal electrodes surrounding it. […] When illuminated by a laser of the right blue-violet color, the atom absorbs and re-emits light particles sufficiently quickly for an ordinary camera to capture it in a long exposure photograph."

So yes, all you're seeing is the light bouncing off of the atom from the laser. And you couldn't see it with the naked eye anyway, it required a long exposure.. Bravo!. Me irl. I'm doing my PhD and I don't call myself a physicist. you have a bachelors in physics?. Same . I'm interested!. More like if we took a long exposure photo of a car car driving around in a culdesac  for like 12 hours, all we'd see is the blur of the headlights taking up the entire area of the culdesac when realistically the car is much smaller than that.  If the guitar was vibrating so much it appeared multiple times larger than if we saw it with our naked eye, at that rate it would kill the person playing it though. So they are produced, have no mass and have how do they have different energy levels if there is no mass? (E=mc^2 ) ( energy so how could we can have different colors) and how does this kills the wave theory? (light is waves with different frequency?) 
If photons have no mass, are they just information?
Sorry but English is not my native language. Thanks for the answer. . We know they're reliable a) because of first principles, which allow us to calculate specifically what they're gonna do, and b) because we have direct experimental evidence, through spectroscopy, that they work. 

There's really no other way to interact with a single atom than by some type of spectroscopy, so I'm not sure what other experiments one could do, but it's OK - the known laws of physics and all available evidence points to this method working.. I doubt you'd see it with the naked eye, this was a  long exposure shot. . > I'm sure if you got up close and looked at it with your eyes

You wouldn't "see" anything - this is a lot like saying "I'm sure if you painted the air it would change color." The concept of "seeing" isn't meaningful at these scales. . Yes of course. It's a long exposure so it's taking several images over time. An atom would be the smallest thing you could possibly see.

Edit: I'm getting down votes but not a clear counter explanation is not being given. Those are so highly excited though that they're definitely exceptions to the general concept. Nobody would disagree with the fact that "atoms are smaller than a micron" despite some extreme edge cases under wild conditions.. Yes. Light isn't reflecting off the atom for the reason you mention. Light is being absorbed an electron is put in an excited state and a photon is remitted. It's the photon emission that's being absorbed . Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strontium
***
^HelperBot ^v1.1 ^/r/HelperBot_ ^I ^am ^a ^bot. ^Please ^message ^/u/swim1929 ^with ^any ^feedback ^and/or ^hate. ^Counter: ^148948. This is the atom used?. Technically correct, yes. But depending on the situation, the effects of the induced B-field may be negligible compared to the RF E-field.

For example, slowly-moving particles in an RF electric quadrupole, which is how some of these traps are made.. In a Penning trap, yes.. Thanks, makes sense - that's why the oscillating quadrupole is necessary. It's probably way beyond my math ability to prove that lol.. **Near-field scanning optical microscope**

Near-field scanning optical microscopy (NSOM/SNOM) is a microscopy technique for nanostructure investigation that breaks the far field resolution limit by exploiting the properties of evanescent waves. In SNOM, the excitation laser light is focused through an aperture with a diameter smaller than the excitation wavelength, resulting in an evanescent field (or near-field) on the far side of the aperture. When the sample is scanned at a small distance below the aperture, the optical resolution of transmitted or reflected light is limited only by the diameter of the aperture. In particular, lateral resolution of 20 nm and vertical resolution of 2–5 nm have been demonstrated.

***

**Electron microscope**

An electron microscope is a microscope that uses a beam of accelerated electrons as a source of illumination. As the wavelength of an electron can be up to 100,000 times shorter than that of visible light photons, electron microscopes have a higher resolving power than light microscopes and can reveal the structure of smaller objects. A scanning transmission electron microscope has achieved better than 50 pm resolution in annular dark-field imaging mode and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas most light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x.

Electron microscopes have electron optical lens systems that are analogous to the glass lenses of an optical light microscope.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot) ^| [^Donate](https://www.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/donate)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. I was giving eli5. Very few things are truly instantaneous. 

Every test i can find uses 1mS as an exposure time not 100, [source](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolute_threshold) which is well within the the threshold for instantaneous in my opinion. 

I was also assuming that the participant wants to consciously observe the atom, not "Maybe i see a flash?" which takes around 100 photons instead of the 3-4 in some experiments ( same source)

That being said it is *possible* that a single electron could put out that many photons as the decay time for These kind of things are on the order of a few nanoseconds but that would require at least 100 photons hitting the single atom per mili second. Again possible but you would never be able to filter that light so your atom will be lost in that brightness. 

As there are no quenchers you can't filter by frequency. Maybe by polarity but atoms mostly reradiate the same polarity light. 

I stand by my assertion. NASA needs to hear from you. Right. And so are atoms.. can confirm. Just closed one eye and was able to cover the moon and a penny with my thumb. [These are small...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OXypyrutq_M). lol. That is pretty small. . Not necessarily, how close you can pack them together would determine that relationship.  Atoms have relatively huge distances between them, whereas pennies touch at their own relative scale.. I think the U.S. government could use one of those.. Thanks for that. Initially I was confused because only electron microscopes have the sufficiently short wavelength capacity to "see" an atom. 

Also, atoms are mostly empty space so the chances of seeing one with light waves is impossible. There simply isn't enough matter to reflect light. A real photo would be of a black spot. 

But I never thought about particle radiation. Learn something new every day. . Can you expand on this? Any good intermediate level sources (Ph. D chemist specializing in spectroscopy, for reference) you might point me towards?. yes

 but i think that's blue. needs more jpeg. Strontium Cricket?. If I’ve learned anything... just fucking kill it now.. Or it could be a halo effect. I doubt the atom is traversing that big of a distance.. Who says they aren't real? The physicists that I follow all seem to believe they are.. I think the point is that the title is intentionally left open to wrong interpretations in order to draw more attention to the article. It's bad practice in science communication, imo.. Being able to distinguish geometry is one non-arbitrary difference. Being able to distinguish size/dimension is another.. Eh, any object emitting that many photons, or captured for that length of time, will appear similarly larger than it actually is. Take a photo of yourself, exposed for very dark conditions, but in broad daylight, and the resultant image of “you” will be much larger than you are (and overexposed, so you’d be a giant white blob).. **Diffraction-limited system**

The resolution of an optical imaging system –  a microscope, telescope, or camera –  can be limited by factors such as imperfections in the lenses or misalignment. However, there is a fundamental maximum to the resolution of any optical system which is due to diffraction. An optical system with the ability to produce images with angular resolution as good as the instrument's theoretical limit is said to be diffraction limited.

The resolution of a given instrument is proportional to the wavelength of the light being observed, and inversely proportional to the size of its objective.

***

**Doppler imaging**

Inhomogeneous structures on stellar surfaces, i.e. temperature differences, chemical composition or magnetic fields, create characteristic distortions in the spectral lines due to the Doppler effect. These distortions will move across spectral line profiles due to the stellar rotation. The technique to reconstruct these structures on the stellar surface is called Doppler-imaging, often based on the Maximum Entropy image reconstruction to find the stellar image.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot) ^| [^Donate](https://www.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/donate)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. Woah! I see now thank you!. It's almost like, if there was no sunlight to bounce around stuff I wouldn't be able to see anything on my naked eye. But I'm not seeing stuff, only light bounce off of it. Crazy, right? . By that logic it's impossible to take a picture of a star, because the lights in the sky are much larger than the physical star creating them. This is as stationary as it's possible to *make* an atom with current technology, and for the foreseeable future. Only pedants would try to argue that it's impossible to "take a picture of a star." 

Not only that, but the cross-section in which the light is being emitted is barely larger than a single pixel on the camera's detector, and is much larger than the distance "traveled" by the confined atom. I see no reason to claim that this isn't a picture of an atom except to be contrary. I say this as a chemist who does research in UHV using instruments somewhat similar to these.. E=mc^2 means you can convert a mass m into energy E/c^2 and vice versa. Things can have energy above the energy their mass is equal to. For example you have a rest energy (E=mc^2) but also have thermal energy and can have kinetic energy. So photons can have energy intrinsic to them even if they don't have mass.

Wave theory works sometimes, particle theory works others. Both describe the quantum world by analogy so they can't be perfect because the quantum world is not like ours. Light isn't waves or particles it is a quantum thing, wavicles.. A long exposure isn't several images over time, it's a single image exposed for a longer time than usual.. > An atom would be the smallest thing you could possibly see.

You can't see an atom directly because they're so much smaller than the wavelength of visible light.

The camera captured photons being emitted by the atom, but that's not really an image of the atom - any more than seeing light from headlights means you've seen the car.

Still very cool though.. Its a trap!!. Don’t need math. To keep a (say point or tiny)charge in equilibrium using static fields, the fields would have to appear to enter inside the point, which would require field lines to cross. However, static field lines never cross. So can’t trap a charge with static fields.. 1ms is the standard used in experiments, to keep the stimulus far away from the upper threshold.  "[However, neural filters only allow a signal to pass to the brain to trigger a conscious response when at least about five to nine arrive within less than 100 ms.](http://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/physics/Quantum/see_a_photon.html)"  I'll take the 100 photon number to get a decently strong signal, but that can be spread over more like 100ms than 1ms and still get a reasonable response.

[I couldn't find a convenient number for Strontium, but Ca-40 emits something like 2x10^(7) photons/sec](https://physics.stackexchange.com/a/194161/144194) which is borderline visible under good conditions.

>As there are no quenchers you can't filter by frequency.

If you're using a sharp excitation laser, I see no reason why you couldn't pull that frequency out.  Dichroic is the usual scheme used in fluorescence microscopy.. Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolute_threshold
***
^HelperBot ^v1.1 ^/r/HelperBot_ ^I ^am ^a ^bot. ^Please ^message ^/u/swim1929 ^with ^any ^feedback ^and/or ^hate. ^Counter: ^148748. **Absolute threshold**

In neuroscience and psychophysics, an absolute threshold was originally defined as the lowest level of a stimulus – light, sound, touch, etc. – that an organism could detect. Under the influence of signal detection theory, absolute threshold has been redefined as the level at which a stimulus will be detected a specified percentage (often 50%) of the time. The absolute threshold can be influenced by several different factors, such as the subject's motivations and expectations, cognitive processes, and whether the subject is adapted to the stimulus.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot) ^| [^Donate](https://www.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/donate)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. NASA wants to know your location. Only if you have really long arms.. Trump hands. Therefore, your thumb is twice as big as  /u/jcbubba's thumb.. But huge for an atom.. Not really, at least in chemistry the size of the atom is determined by the interatomic distances in a close packed structure. This would mean that penny-moon idea is pretty accurate.. Black holes are real. Singularities, meaning infinitely small points, likely aren't real. They're just a mathematical concept as far as we know. I believe some physicists believe infinite states are possible, like in singularities or the size of the universe. I myself think it's just a mathematical concept to make it easier to approximate non-arbitrarily large and small numbers.

I also think there's some unknown state of matter made of particles we have yet to uncover which is the most compressed matter possible, at the center of black holes. It just so happens that this matter is so highly compressed, that it compresses even light. Similar to Neutronium in the center of pulsars, or strange matter in the center of quark stars. Really? Check that again with them, because every respectable physicist will tell you that he simply can't tell you what happens at the blackhole singularity, because our physical models simply can't predict that. To phrase it mathematically, singularities are not in domain of our universe.. The guy writing it for a mainstream publication is most likely just listening with glassy eyes then trying to make sense or use the best quote.   Same with the people who design the back blurbs & cover art for novels.   It's  an incredibly stupid way to runa civilization.. 100%  I've been arguing this point and the discrepancies the headline, article, and photo bring to the table.  But all I get is massive downvoted because I don't "believe" that I'm looking at a single atom. 

There are so many other things going on here, it's not as simple, or anything really, that the headline suggests.  But my god, you try to use rational and Psycics to work this out and somehow you turn into a climate change denier.  

You are 100% on the title my friend.  I hope the author of the article is getting reemed by the scientific community as we speak.. dont talk about boogie2988 like that.. Agreed but people are looking at this and saying that this is the size of an atom and it is in no way accurate.. Point being?. Not if you don’t move . I'm not saying it's not a picture of an atom, I'm just saying if you looked at it with your naked eye which does not use long exposure, it wouldn't be that bright or you wouldn't be able to see it at all.  It is certainly possible to take a picture of a star but also if you take a picture of a star and leave the shutter open for like an hour, that picture of the star is going to appear alot brighter or bigger than it would if you were to take a snap with a quick shutter speed.  I don't know why you're trying to call me a pedant.  If someone is saying you can't take a picture of a star because you're really just taking a picture of radiation coming from the star than the same can be said of anything.  A picture of my dick in your reddit inbox is really just a picture of radiation reflecting off my dick and into the camera lens in that case so you shouldn't be offended when you see it

edit: why am i wasting my time here... i must really not want to go to the dmv today... but i have to so..... Theeya!. Thanks man! Really nice talking about physics on reddit. With people. I really like how things are more ore less the same but not at the same time and stuff. We have Quantum physics next year in school. Really looking forward now . While that's true in this case, image composition is also a perfectly valid technique to use, and is quite common when you want to take a *really* long exposure (for example, most of what ends up on /r/astrophotography ).  Imaging sensors don't handle being left open for extremely long periods of time very well, so it makes more sense to e.g. composite 600 images at 1 minute exposure each than to try to take a single 10-hour long exposure.. I think you're arguing over semantics. The image on the sensor is not the same over time, is it. It depends on your definition of the term "image". 

We would both agree the detector is being held open for a prolonged time. I would say that at any given moment the thing that appears on the sensor is an image, creating over time a long exposure. What term would you give to the instantaneous image shown on the screen/sensor? You can call it something different like a "view", but we're not arguing about physics we're arguing over language. . Well the definition breaks down. You never "see" anything by your definition. You only ever "see" photons. Measuring photons from a single atom is just as much seeing that atom as any other object because that is how we see. . You realise it's stimulated by an ultra powerful laser? Such that it is emitting a great number of photons. So yes in this case you would be able to see the photons emitted from the atom directly with your eyes. 

(On a separate  note I take your point that seeing photons emitted from an atom is in a sense not seeing the atom directly, but in your analogy of seeing car headlights you could clearly infer existence of the car from the headlights). . That right there is math. . don’t fuckin move. >I myself think it's just a mathematical concept to make it easier to approximate non-arbitrarily large and small numbers.

Isn't that pretty much all of physics though?. That last sentence had a pang of terry prarchett in it.. > It's an incredibly stupid way to runa civilization.

Civilization is run by book blurbs?. Yes, only you are knowledgeable to understand such advanced science jargon. . What is wrong about the title? I think it’s a lack of understanding why you think it’s confusing.. > getting reemed by the scientific community

OwO. ^^burn. I haven’t seen a single comment yet stating that this is the size of an atom. I think it’s inappropriate to call it “misleading”.. That it ain’t misleading.. Nah, even standing still you’ll get an oversized representation. The light intensity spills over into neighboring photosites, and even just diffraction through the air and lens elements causes some spillage.. I didn't call you a pedant, you're imagining that. 

OPs original point was that he thought this was "the atom visualized" and was wondering why many people said this wasn't so. My point is that he is right - this is the atom visualized by any reasonable definition of that word, and your response to the opposite effect was misleading.. I feel photographers still tend to draw a distinction between a long exposure and image stacking, though. You can easily wind up with very different artifacts, depending on what you’re shooting.. I learned something today.. It’s true in every case. You can combine the techniques, sure, but long exposure still only refers to exposure time of the sensor or film. . We don't see everything that way. A flash light radiates photons across a spectrum of energy which scatter through the atmosphere of earth hit objects and are either absorbed or reflected back at you at a wavelength of energy which enters your eye, stimulating the rod and cone cells but slightly more of the S-cone cells than the M or L cones. Your brain interprets this as the color red. Happy Valentine's Day. 

Jokes aside, what's happening in flashlights and the sun are different than what is happening on mirrors and Valentine's Day cards. .  because both are flat? . Kind of, but not in this case.

The singularity is predicted by Relativity, a classical theory that assumes smooth, continuous (infinitely divisible) space. Quantum mechanics has had much success operating on the principle that properties at the smallest scales are not continuous. The singularity is an artifact of Relativity's incompleteness. Quantum effects kick in well before the size of the singularity and so it is likely that the true behavior is much weirder.. Depends who you ask I suppose. There are many parts of physics which are able to be perfectly described mathematically and some physicists ever argue that the nature of the universe is mathematical.

I tend to think that at most we will just be able to get closer and closer approximations of the physics of the universe. But I don't think it has ever or may not ever be proven either way.. yeah.

no wait.   now by tweets

oh no wait. I've heard it described as "the overworked take orders from the incompetent for the benefit of the oblivious.". "Shows a single atom" 

Extreme misleading.  People all over these identical posts literally think they are looking at a single atom.  

They're not.  First off, the light isn't being reflected off or bounced off the atom, it's due to photons being emitted due to the electrical charge they have running through the atom.   

Even then, the atom is constantly oscillating.  It would be damn near impossible to visually show this through visual light we can see with the most powerful electron microscope in the world.  And yet these guys are saying "well, all of the photons emitted by the electron, from which we are adding energy to constantly, were just enough to get a single pixel on the camera to flip.  Hence, you are looking at a single atom." 

It's so misleading.  The actual atom is so incredibly small compared to the dot they show it's ridiculous.  It would be akin to me tossing some red paint out on my driveway, but the satellite looking down showed the entire state of Michigan just turned red.  Then going and saying, "We took such a good picture with the satellite we can see one guy who chucked some red paint on his driveway.  Because see, look at the red."

Well, you didn't show the guy.  He is WAY to small to resolve.  The problem is, you used a single pixel for an area the size of Michigan.  So when it sensed red, it turned the whole state red.  

This is the size discrepancy we are talking about.  You aren't looking at the actual atom, which is what the article construes. 

. There is a lot of comments curious as to how it is visible and such. https://www.reddit.com/r/physics/comments/7xhcu1/_/du8cc56

This means that the title and picture misleads people into understanding what they are actually seeing to the point where they have to actually ask what the fuck they are seeing.. I found it misleading.  . Good point, you’re right . Your taking about things that don't matter. 

Our eyes absorb photons. That is the definition of seeing something. It doesn't matter how those photons were created. 

If the photon was reflected or fluoresced you see something by absorbing photons. So yes, if an atom fluoresces and you absorb that light you are seeing that atom. Also another point. Quantum mechanically the things that happen in the sun are very similar to what is happening in a flash light. The vast majority of photons are created by moving charged particles. An electron falls from a higher energy level or a molecule vibrates in a way that creates a photon. 

The cause of the higher energy state or vibration may be different but it amounts to the same photon being created ( assuming the same energy release). Hahahahaha I can't even 😂. Oh, look this guy again. You should also believe we can't see stars if you want to follow through with your logic. Yep, there's no pictures of stars alright. Sure.. You’re insane. The picture is not to show scale or how big the atom is. You come off as a douche to think that most people with don’t understand how small an atom is.

You’re arguing about something that most people already know to make yourself seem smart. . Comments asking about the nature of the thing =/= “This is the actual size of atoms”. The one you linked to was asking why it was BLURRY, for instance.

I think the only people being misleading are those trying to insist that the photo is misleading.. Sure, with the justification that some people may have misunderstood it. But that doesn’t mean it’s misleading; it means you’re one of those that misunderstood.. No, the definition of seeing something is when it is resolved by an imaging system. Following your definition, if someone turns on a flashlight and the beam reflects off of fog, would that count as "seeing" the flashlight? If you look at the sky and see blue, are you "seeing" the sun?

Edit: and the distinction is important to help us understand what exactly is happening in this image. If the title had mentioned how bright the atom was, or simply that it was taken with a normal camera we would all understand that this is a macroscopic image taken with a camera (not a microscope) and would avoid all this confusion. To be fair, the title is fairly explicit.. Teach me, master.. Maybe deceiving would have been a better word for you?. I didn’t misunderstand - appearances here can be misleading because it gives you the impression that a single atom is visible to the naked eye, it is not.. Light is preferentially reflected by the fog. Some of it is absorb and some of that is re emitted. Those photons that each you allow you to see the fog. 

You are seeing the fog because without the energy (carried by the photons provided by the flashlight) you wouldn't be able to see the fog at all. You can't have seeing without photons. 

The origin of the photons doesn't matter. All that matters is the intensity ( photons per second) and wavelength of the photons. What’s wrong with “accurate”? That’s exactly what it would look like if you had a frozen Strontium atom zapped with a laser, and really really sensitive eyes. Just because it requires some pretty extraordinary measures to visualize something, that doesn’t mean it’s “misleading”. That just means our eyes are kinda shitty cameras and some imaging processes can do better.. apparently it is. the wrong step you are making is concluding it gives a correct impression of the atoms size. . No more misleading than any other macro photograph. Do you think high-resolution images of, say, tardigrades are also misleading?. There is a limit to the resolution we can perceive using light as an observation method.  We are not “seeing” the atom.  That was my point from the inception.. Check the title.  I’ve made no misstep.. The cgi ones yes.. > There is a limit to the resolution we can perceive using light as an observation method.

And we can expand that limit with neat tricks, such as a long exposure to capture a greater amount of light than our eyes would perceive. There is nothing misleading about it.

Your complaint is basically "that's not what **I** would see if I were standing there", but so what? You're not the gold standard for optical quality. You have terrible cameras. You're basically complaining that someone made a better camera than what you have in your head.. Oooookay, I was clearly talking about photos in a thread about photos under a topic about a photo. When you gotta move the goalposts, that’s an indicator that you oughtta rethink your position, IMO.. Omg what is with the hostility.  I’m making an observation.  Forget it, you all win.. My point is you are not seeing the atom.  It is much smaller.  It is a point that was reiterated multiple times.  When I saw the point of light I thought to myself that’s not the size of an atom.  That’s all.  . Opinion appreciated, have a good day.. Dude, you're accusing something of being misleading when it isn't. The hostility started with YOU.

I'm giving you excellent feedback: It is not misleading. You are simply wrong. Get over it.. > My point is you are not seeing the atom.

Sure, you're seeing the light reflected or emitted by the atom. Just like how every photograph doesn't depict its subject, but the light reflected or emitted by the subject. Do you think every photograph is misleading?. Why is it so important to you to prove me wrong? I had no hostility.  I made an observation and a point.  You have your opinion and I respect that, although I disagree.  Wish you all the best.. No just ones that say they have imaged an atom with light and that you can see the “atom” as a digital representation.. > Why is it so important to you to prove me wrong? 

Because bogus accusations suck, dude. It ain't misleading. Accusing it of being misleading is hostile. Knock it off.. So what is that white dot in the image, above?. My comment was as to the size being misleading.  I’m not arguing that it is not a representation of an atom.  I’m saying that on reading the title and seeing the image an assumption could be made that you are seeing an atom and that is its size.  This is a logical assumption that many made as there are multiple comments along these lines.  It is the wrong assumption.. > My comment was as to the size being misleading

And I still disagree: This is what one would see, with superhuman eyes of course, if a single atom were trapped and zapped with a laser as described. It is descriptive of the extreme measures that must be taken to accomplish that image, but it is by no means misleading. It is perfectly accurate, non-embellished, un-exaggerated, good ol’ fashioned century-old photographic technique.

Sorry you don’t appreciate good technique. Your loss. Thought you guys would appreciate this note from my grandfathers stuff from the Radiation Lab at MIT in the 1940’s. nan. "Why bother?" - Einstein 1940. The note reads:

>Dr. Einstein came into my laboratory–(Lab for Nuclear Science & Engineering) I looked at him and said Dr. Einstein–don’t you ever cut your hair? He looked at me with a grin, and said “why bother?” I agreed with him.
. As someone who gets this question a lot, this is my new go to excuse. In this thread, a lot of translations.. Cool . [deleted]. Please could someone translate I'm not good at the reading . this couldn't be the only interesting thing in his notes!  if you were to post a few more, I would really appreciate it. this is really cool.. [- Why bother?](https://imgur.com/gallery/A1rF1U0)     

Edit: Oh! WoW Silver!!! Thanks so much. Inspiration goes to OP’s grandpa. . [deleted]. There’s a lot of people calling bullshit so here’s proof 

https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. Well written and likely a small anecdote that could've/should've been included in his biography.. That man's name - Albert Einstein. . Do people not write in cursive script (joined up writing) anymore? It just wasn’t that hard to read. 

Am I in an alternate reality or parallel universe? - nope that’s a whole different subreddit.

Way cool note though!. Heh, does he place the question mark before or after the closing quotation mark? No, they arrive _simultaneously_.. I can't seriously be the only person that had no problem reading this note.. If you have more I would be fascinated to read! . when your handwriting is so neat that its hard to read . I just cut my hair yesterday.  My IQ is not high.  Feels cool though.. This is great! Do you have anymore interesting notes that your grandfather wrote?. Its from the 1940s but has no wear and tear. I would assume at the least it will be a bit oxidized and turn a slight yellow.  Op I apologize but I think you are just looking for karma and some attention.... Years of reading my mom's scribbles prepared me for this.  I could read it. This is so damn cool. What a cool grandfather! . That man that came into my grandfathers office? Albert Einstein.. That belongs in the Smithsonian. ;-) What job did your grandfather do, any connection to the Manhattan Project?. I agree with them both.. I don’t mean to be a cynic, but how is the pencil that well defined if it’s from 1940? It almost looks as if it was recently written, and I doubt you grandfather would put his note into a ziplock bag.

EDIT: I’m an idiot sorry, upon closer inspection you can see it’s pen, and even more conductive to proof that it’s genuine is the fact that if was done by a fountain pen. My apologies.. A man walked into my lab and said he never bothered cutting his hair.


That man’s name?


Albert Einstein.. We would be able to appreciate more if we could read it. your grand dad was a rad dad. Inspiration for [MIT physics professor and former US secretary of energy Ernest Moniz. ](http://web.mit.edu/physics/images/faculty/moniz_ernie.jpg). [Me looking for a barber](https://xkcd.com/1206/). This makes me so happy, this is so cool.. My goodness. This has made my day!. It says " Dr. Einstein came into my laboratory (Lab for nuclear science and engineering) 
I looked at him and said Dr. Einstein - don't you ever cut your hair?
He looked at me with a grin and said "why bother?". I agreed with him.. Dr Einstein came into my laboratory (lab for Nuclear Science & Engineering). I looked at him and said "Dr Einstein - don't you ever cut your hair?"

He looked at me with a grin, and said "Why bother?"

I agreed with him.. Rfty. This is truly wonderful.. This writing though. Make me want to write like that. . Could anyone explain Einstein's answer? I'm learning the language and I'm kind of confused whether Einstein implyed "why do you bother" or "why should we bother about our hair". . That's amazing! 😁. The note reads:

1943

Dr Einstein came into my laboratory (Lab for Nuclear Science & Engineering). I looked at him and said Dr. Einstein - don’t you ever cut your hair? He looked at me with a grin and said “why bother?” I agreed with him.. My translation effort (for those in need):

"Dr. Einstein came into my laboratory (Lab for Nuclear Science and Engineering).

I looked at him and said 'Dr Einstein - don't you ever cut your hair?'

He looked at me with a grin and said 'why bother?' I agreed with him.". I too think it's Bullshit and looks like you just wrote it yourself . I would if I could.. Read it.. . What is this foreign font they used for writing? I have never seen it before. Someone quick, explain this font.. Duuude your grandpa is Einstein?. That’s awesome, I wonder if his aspergers prevented him from getting haircuts because of sensory frustration?. Fake. Paper from 1940 doesn't look like that

Also, nobody puts the year on top of their notes

Not to mention that a note like this makes no sense at all. It would if it was a journal entry, but not a note

You would believe literally everything wouldn't you? . I agree with him.. It's gonna hurt me. This is going to be quoted by so many crackpots... . That kid's name? Alberto Einsteinio. Too bad I painfully tried reading the whole thing before clicking on comments. [deleted]. "Do you concur?"

"Yes.". The name "lab for nuclear science and engineering" and "radiation lab" was military deception. They didn't work on nuclear physics, they were working on microwaves, primarily for radar . Thanks, I hate fancy cursory writing. Shits not even readable.. Tell them it is where your power is stored . As a dude with long hair, new go to phrase too.. I'm just surprised how many people can't read his beautiful cursive handwriting.. I spent so long looking at this that I’m going to be late to fart class :(. It’s perfect . What would you have opened with? Not trying to be snarky Haha genuine question . Dr. Einstein came into my laboratory

(Lab[?] for nuclear[?] science and engineering)

I looked at him and said Dr. Einstein- dont you ever[?] cut[?] your hair?

He looked at me with a grin, and said "why bother?" I agreed with him.. [removed]. https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. It could be that. But even for those of us slightly older than millennials (I was born in '80 and have been retconned into a millennial), many things we read were printed, not handwritten. Most people never need to read substantial amounts of detail hand written by others, and in school you often read your own notes... except for scientists! (electrodynamics and plasma was my background)

Even today, when there are multiple collaborative experiments going on in a single lab, both the congestion and the nature of them require the use of lab notebooks (smaller computers are getting better, and I feel things like "surface" devices where sketching and adding photos in should replace written notebooks in many places, they are substantially more expensive and require IT support). We get forced to read the odd hieroglyphs that some people call handwriting. In the last lab I worked in a single notebook would have at least 4 people writing in it at a time as we handed off duties and modifications and updates pretty regularly.. 60s lady here.. it was easy to read. I don't think kids are exposed to much handwriting anymore.. Read through this and if you care to read the same post on /r/pics from my history and you will find a great many English-speaking people who cannot read this. I do not understand it at all I was able to read it effortlessly, without even thinking about its legibility . I mean it was mostly readable. The only thing I messed up on was nuclear. I thought it said neutron. Same basic idea I guess, but not.... It was very difficult for me to read  despite being born in 87. I was taught cursive in primary school, but beyond that it’s simply never used. 99.999% of all the reading I’ve done my entire life has been in print. 

Also I personally just hate the look of it. It comes off so extra and messy for my brain. . My graduating class was one of the last in my district that learned cursive. We had to learn it up until middle school, and they insisted that we would need it. Then they abruptly dropped it and nobody has asked me to write in cursive since.

Nobody I know writes in cursive. The most anyone does is some older folks will write print that occasionally has a cursive letter or two.

Soon it will only be necessary for historians and anthropologists to read cursive.. I think there's a component of context in it too. I was able to pick up most of the words just because  I had an idea of what to expect from OP's title (plus Einstein's hair is a very distinguishable feature about Einstein). I particularly had a hard time deciphering the word "nuclear" (because I had no context for what the word should be) and deciding "comb" vs "cut" (since both make sense in this context). It just goes to show how much we rely on the shapes of words rather than the individual letters (and I guess that some people are better at deciphering the shapes of words than others). 

 I wonder how much harder it would be for people to decipher the note without OP's title.

EDIT: Clarity (I'm a 90's kid too, by the way). 00s boy, that isn't native to english, here could read it pretty easily.. Yeah what? English isn’t even my first language and I had no problems with that.. Oh snap! I literally just wrote the same thing around the same time. Lol . [deleted]. Cursive is definitely on the decline, to the point that IIRC some North American primary schools are phasing it out of their curriculum. A lot of my peers (as a grad student) and the undergrads I teach seem to only print. 

As an amateur calligrapher and someone who relies on cursive for day to day quick notetaking and just loves the look of well trained non calligraphic cursive penmanship, this makes me sad. . University history programs are beginning to incorporate training in cursive since the younger grads and undergrads never had to learn or never became fluent enough in reading different types of scripts.  They can't read archival documents.. Yeah, I'm an old guy, who also found it easy to read this.

Now I feel like I know ancient secrets. I'm gonna get myself a staff and pointy hat.. Its weird...how many people cannot read this.... Not generally, most schools do not teach cursive properly, if at all, and therefore those students who try it - usually do not write legibly enough for the speed improvement to be worth it. I write cursive faster than I type (with fewer errors) - and it is very much legible because I taught myself properly as an adult. . I’m surprised too, the penmanship is actually really good, especially considering it was written by a man and likely rather quickly.. Didn't find it hard to read either. Reddit is primarily younger than me so /shrug.. I didn't find it hard to read, but to answer your question, people don't write at all anymore, so they struggle with anything that isn't a font.. Ill tell you what this whole book is cool. It’s really hard to describe. . https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. Not necessarily.  I can weigh in with a couple points.  The stye of cursive is consistent with a student of that time period, albeit it's less legible than usual.  In particular the trailing t has a spencerian style that remained in the Palmer method taught in the early 20th century, but fell out of favor a generation later.  It also looks like it was written quickly.  Most, though not all, modern folks would have a hard time writing quickly in cursive these days.  These details help corroborate OP's claim IMO.  I've also got many letter written by my grandfather during WWII and many are equally pristine.

The paper which seems very thin and unlined and is not typical of modern paper either.  I don't know where you'd find it actually.  It does remind me of the stuff my grandmother used to write on though and she was exactly the right era.

. I have a few old pieces of paper similar to this and they look great. It's all about how they are stored. . /r/nothingeverhappens. Pages kept in books can keep like new for a very long time.. Also who writes the date as only the year? lol. That’s cool I appreciate your skepticism but I assure you it is 100% legit. . [here](https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s) . https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/avz6pp/proof_for_the_einstein_note_from_my_grandfather/

I saw your edit but thought you might find this interesting anyway . Heeeeeey. Aw...that’s awesome. . What does this mean?. He means why should we bother. I don't know but id guess it's because they were working on nukes and believed the world would be destroyed. . Did you not see the ten thousand times I posted video of the yearbook and other documents?. Dr. Einstein came into my laboratory (Lab for Nuclear Science & Engineering). I looked at him and said, Dr. Einstein, don't you ever cut your hair? He looked at me with a grin and said "why bother?" I agreed with him.. https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s. [Here Mr. Snooty Smarty Pants. How does it make you feel to know that literally every single conclusion you’ve drawn is totally wrong? you have to ask yourself what you really know about anything now don’t you? being so certain, but so wrong. I’m surprised to find you here ](https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s) . it's gonna kill when you desert me. F. Nucular 
-G.W.B.. It’s pronounced nuuuclear.. Grandpa musta had some pep in his step that day, put a little flair on the lowercase n.. # (Einstein from above): It's  A T O M I C  not nuclear. Did you think it was the Lab for Murder Science, too?. Microwaves are a form of radiation. . It's much faster to write. . Samson and Einstein, strength and intelligence.

Nice. . Exactly my thoughts. This looks like a kid’s handwriting honestly. Me too. More so because it's almost exactly like my own, I have folders and folders of this, with pencil and fountain pen. I've never considered it beautiful really, there are much better writers. It's just sad that kids are being deprived of cursive, it's actually convenient and it'd be the heritage of many of them as well, apparently that doesn't matter anymore.

IMO, proper handwriting is essential to develop the finer motor controls of the hand. I've heard we're about to get clumsy surgeons.. I hope you make it, /u/__Semenpenis__. I think it's "don't you ever cut your hair?". Something something is “ever cut” as in “don’t you ever cut your hair?” Also agree is agreed. It's "don't you ever cut your hair?"  

I'd like to thank my current logic prof for training me to read bad hand writings.. I would assume it's a badly translated joke (like the German three legged chair) but it's written in English. . Awesome! Thanks for this quick video!. I'm (23f) having a boy in May and I am definitely going to teach him cursive and neat penmenship when he gets old enough. Right now I'm teaching my (25m) fiance. . Also this is really sloppy, academia brand cursive.. Born in 88 here and I could decipher it at 80% speed of printed characters.. I’m always pooping so.... As a random undergrad that never understood how to actually write faster in print than cursive, thanks, but my notes look *far* from art.. as a wise man once said, why bother?. Yes, it’s very sad. A dying art it would seem.. I can read most of it but its frustrating when some words are scrawled quickly and hard to decipher. . That Imgur name though...BoobooKittyFuck69... do you by chance watch The DickeyDines Show?. This guy cursives . You sir, are [the correct one.](https://imgur.com/gallery/MxqEf7s) . Was this in Bldg 24 or Bldg 10?. I’m certain I will, thanks.. Thanks man.. Same. Still proves nothing as you didn’t open to that page.  And relax, I’m messing around. It’d be pretty lame if you to lie about that on a physics subreddit. hey mate, glad to be proven wrong

You can't blame me for being doubtful over the internet, and you didn't explain anything in that passive-aggressive post. Develop more, counter argument my points. What is that? A collection book with snippets taken from notes from scientists working there in those years?. https://imgur.com/r/thesimpsons/Kde7Nti. Laughed too fucking hard at this. *Nuculer (New-cue-ler) FTFY

God I fucking hate when people pronounce it like this. New Clear is not hard.
. Yes, of course, but that's a modern meaning.

In the 1930's "radiation" referred to ionizing radiation.  Either high energy particles or gamma/x-rays.. Ah yes, because until now the medical field was famous for it's impeccable handwriting.. Thanks. It’s the day where we learn how to fart without shitting our pants. I’m looking forward to it.. /r/rimjob_steve. yeap, i editted in. Thanks!. yeap, i figured it out after posting. changed the agree to agreed.. Why? Nobody will use it except historians and anthropologists.. And that wise man’s name?. No sir. Just in case you remain curious it is a Jay and Silent Bob reference that no one ever gets . I've definitely poured over my share of penmanship manuals from the 1800's to the modern era.  . Yeah, that's a super cool find man, Einstein was a childhood hero of mine.  I respect people wanting verification on the internet, but I don't see too much reason to doubt this one.  . Ok ok . Naw dude, what he posted doesn't prove anything.  His gif doesn't show the same thing in the photo.  I agree it doesn't look real at all.. This is all fair. I redact my snootiness . [Is the poop deck really what I think it is?](https://frinkiac.com/meme/S09E19/727809.jpg?b64lines=IEkgTElLRSBUSEUgQ1VUIE9GIFlPVVIgSklC). No no no... It’s NUKE...Lear.... They had to master that skill while their brains were developing in school, that's what counts. The awful calligraphy starts in med school (I have doctors in the family), or at least it used to.

It's even worse nowadays, because kids are manipulating physical objects less and less. It's all screens and simple gestures. And then no one fixes anything anymore, so there goes dexterity. I have my doubts about many being able to sew a button.. Send me the notes, I’m not gonna make it to class today bc I shat my pants. Looks like I’m not gonna do very well on the midterm :(. Maybe my son will be that then. Haha. It depends. If you work somewhere that you might have to look at old records (even in science and engineering we have the need), you'll probably have to read some cursive. It's a useful skill to read old information.. And because I appreciate neat writing. As well as stuff a lot of people can't even decipher, like graffiti's. I would be interested to take a look. Anything online you can suggest? (perhaps some scans?). I appreciate the skepticism when it is presented respectfully. . Maybe : https://youtu.be/V7ktD66YvJ0?t=782. What's a jib?. You sound like a baby boomer talking completely out of their ass. Surgeons who play video games show statistically better results because of better hand dexterity.. Username *doesn’t* check out lmao. [IAMPETH!](https://www.iampeth.com/lessons) check out thranuals by zane, bloser, etc.  The original spencerian manuals are just ok, but the later development is awesome.. [IAMPETH!](https://www.iampeth.com/rare-books) check out the manuals by zaner, bloser, etc.  The original spencerian manuals are just ok, but the later development is awesome.

Edit: use this link, the first one was the wrong one.. Nope, I'm not a baby boomer, and I don't understand what has any of this to do with physics. You have a problem with facts that are obvious to any teacher. E.g. https://www.theguardian.com/society/2018/oct/30/medical-students-raised-on-screens-lack-skills-for-surgery

There's more, in my experience many teens aren't even able to use a desktop computer, they've never been exposed to its paradigm. I'm not much older than you probably, but there's been a lot of changes recently, and I don't think they're for the better. I come from a teacher's family for generations and I teach myself, so that's that.. I have seen your name in literally every comment section i go through lately

Are you following me?

....or am i follow you?. ...The Guardian is not a scientific journal... That is literally one surgeon's unscientific opinion on "being raised on screens" with absolutely no studies, let alone literature reviews, to back it up.

This is essentially a discussion on ludditism and somehow tying completely separate skills together to make a statement about kids these days. 

From a review article: [There is evidence from multiple studies of a correlation between video game playing and increased initial performance with laparoscopic, endovascular, gastrointestinal endoscopic, but not robotic, techniques. However this gap seems to close with increased complexity of task, revealing perhaps that cognitive benefits are soon outweighed by the specific details of the surgical modality. There is some evidence that training on video games over short periods can improve laparoscopic ability. This latter point suggests that the link is causal and not simply due to the inclination of those with natural visuospatial skills to enjoy playing video games and be proficient at surgery.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1931720410000383)

A more recent review: [Five randomized controlled trials, assessing the effect of video game use on laparoscopic surgical skills, are included in this review.7–11 Two studies showed a significant reduction in error after the use of video games.7,8 Several other variables (time, path length of instruments, smoothness), however, were assessed in these two studies without yielding any significant difference between control and intervention groups. One study showed a reduction in time to perform three of four laparoscopic tasks after video game preparation. Two studies showed no difference between control (no video game warm-up) and intervention group (video game warm-up).](https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/full/10.1089/end.2015.0425)

Video games, which I am using as a proxy of "being raised on screens" considering how ubiquitous they are, are positively correlated with surgical skill. No need for a now obsolete handwriting system.. or am you follow i. It's obsolete because it's cheaper to make it obsolete. If you knew the trade you'd understand. I don't have time to argue about chips on your shoulder and it's not the point of this sub. Believe what you want, I was simply giving my opinion according to my experience.

BTW, many theorists I know use cursive all f- day, and then blackboards, it's just what makes sense. You're not Latexing your calculations unless you're writing a paper or you have too much spare time. You ought to see Witten's pristine notebooks. Time evolution of a quantum particle in a 2D box. nan. This animation shows the dynamics of a quantum particle in a 2D square-well potential. Despite the apparent chaos that quickly ensues, the state soon revives right back to where it started.

To be a little more precise, the initial state is the ground state of a circular well potential near the top-left. It’s as if a particle was sitting in the ground state of the circular well and then the circular well was suddenly “turned off” allowing the particle to enter a 2D square well with walls on the edge of the view.

I generate this animation by solving for the ground state of the circular well in the 2D box basis. The time-dependent wave function is then simply the superposition of the box basis states with appropriate time-dependent phase factors. I map from the probability density (modulus squared wave function) to the colors shown in the animation. I use Python here. Numpy to solve the Schrodinger equation and OpenCV to create the video.

Let me know if you have questions or suggestions for other things to try!

I have more cool quantum stuff on [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/hudthescientist/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/hudthescientist) (@hudthescientist).

EDIT 2021-03-11, 2:05 EST: I have generated **TEN MORE** of these with different initial conditions. [View them here](https://www.instagram.com/p/CMSiSU7nCpO/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link) (my public Instagram).. [deleted]. [Check out this interactive one!](https://www.falstad.com/qm2dbox/) (The Falstad applets don't get enough love haha). I also have old similar source [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/88s5eg/quantum_doubleslit_simulation/).. I don’t understand quantum mechanics. Yeah I’m gonna need that translated into sound.. this is awesome! I actually recently made a [somewhat interactive version](https://ecotner.github.io/visualizations/quantum/2d_square_well/) of this myself recently, with tunable electromagnetic fields, if you want to take a look!. Cool. Knarly!. Can Someone put some EDM over this please?. That's pretty cool.
What's the time and space scale?. Fun additional problem: preform the same simulation but let the vertical sides of the box be replaced by half circles. The resulting “particle ina hockey rink” is among the simplest genuinely chaotic quantum systems!. So is it a single particle that separates and comes back together?. What an awesome way to visiualise this! Even with a fairly reasonable understanding of the maths this is still really helpful to see.. That's neat! I made [something similar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yioJgNB3KFQ), but with the probability amplitude plotted in 3D.. Thank Bohr this didn't loop, I might have been watching it for ages.... So, we're specifically looking at the probability amplitudes for the particle's location, yes?. What kind of subatomic fuckery is this?. :O 
- me, being imprinted with advanced concepts I only sort of understand. I’m guessing this is the 1D ‘particle in a box’ wave function solution of the Hamiltonian operator we solved in P-chem but with the same function in the i and j components? Same initial conditions?. Rick & Morty when they lose their coherence. This made Reddit app crash. Oh and my brain.
Freaking awesome.. It seems like the position is almost determined after a certain time (about 10 sek in your animation). What does that imply?. Fan of Greg Egan by any chance?. Beautiful and instructive. Please consider sharing the source code, you would be inspiring thousands to try and learn more interactively. That too not just quantum mechanics, but also Python and OpenCV. Thanks!. Fake, i am obviously observing this one..

Jk, ofc. Absolutley awesome work. This is cool. Why does the probability at the end converge back to what it was at t=0?. Is the beta function involved in some way?. I love when it "localizes" in the opposite corner. Professors in my stat mech courses always said how it is possible that all particles could move to the same corner of the room, but it is highly unprobable. But QM is over here like, watch this

QM is amazing.. I love this. I like how after the wavepacket reflects off the walls and then interferes with itself, the wave breaks into little cells (I guess based on the eigenvectors being sines  with wavelengths fractions of the dimensions) and then you see those little wave pieces bouncing around inside their individual boxes a bit before the little wave pieces coalesce into larger wavelength boxes or split into smaller.. Particle starts on top left, goes everywhere, ends up at bottom right, goes everywhere again and back to top left. [removed]. Do the same with two particles.. So is the grid pattern that emerges the particle avoiding other places where the particle might be?

I'm sure I'm phrasing that wrong, but it seems like the probability of a particle being in any place is inversely related to the probability of the particle being right next to that place; so you get sort of local wells of high probability space separated by low probability space?

Or to put it another way, high probability wells must be separated by low probability space?. This is awesome. Bro this would make a great screen saver.. Add some techno music. This is a great visualization!. "It's all happening!"

Beautiful.. Looks like slices from a 3D object. How does this relate to the Schrodinger wave function ?. What equation are you using?. That's just the DVD screensaver with extra steps.... Thought this was r/lsd for a second.. I have two questions, so did you make this in Matlab? And also does this use particle in box model?. This made my brain feel smooth. My eyes simply accepted this visual input without question. They do be vibin'. This feels illegal to watch. Do you have the code for this? I’ve always struggled with animations in Python and it’d be useful to see how you do it.. looks like a disco but great job dude. It's just vibing. Any possibility you share the source code? Would be awesome to see how you handled the Schrodinger's Equation!. Is there a way to visualize the phase of the wave function as well?. [deleted]. Damn. I want this on a 60 foot tall screen at Bonnarroo. jello?. Reminds me of the Winamp visualisations. I have no idea what's going on but it looks nifty. Let's do the Time Warp again!. So if I program a system or invent a formula that appears to produce something like this, is it likely something of value for the physics community?. No idea what this is, but it’s very pretty.. Trippyyyy 

I love it

I wonder how this will look in a 3D box. Or maybe if there was a potential barrier somewhere and a bit of extra empty space to get some tunneling.. Looks just like water. It's like watching the surface of churning water. Oil and water where the water temp ~= boiling. That is impressive. 

Hope people don't get this comment as a tinfoil or st, but sometimes qm looks like a cheat of reality than a fair description. Just a impression. You can clearly see it has the largest overlap with the 3,3 state. I think this kind of intuition is something that should be taught more but I’m a sucker for eye candy so I’m biased. As one of my professors in Material Science used to say, “solids are not”. Wow it's so beautiful. To think that we’re made of this stuff is actually pretty awesome. I expected to see more harmonics.
Can you simulate the tunneling effect?
Can I get the codes?. I have a question: I’m really just starting my way into quantum physics (9th grade) but as I understood it, Heisenbergs table shows that there are unlimited possibilities for an electron to change its state(?). How can you code/calculate or anticipate the evolution of atoms in a system (2D Box)? Or is a quantum particle just something totally different? Pls don’t be too rough on me as I Said im only just starting:) hehe. [removed]. Drink when the quantum particle in a 2D box touches the corner.. When is it going to make a brain. Sooooo this is supposed to a heat map representing it's probability of being in any one spot? It always amazes me how hot takes, and even brilliant scientists will attempt to explain things in ways that will mislead the less learned. It also surprises me that people will confuse the fact that we can't reliably measure quantum particles location at any given time with " they can't be in one place at any given time " source : I am composed of an unfathomable number of quantum particles which maintain a relatively easily measured location in space and time.. Can someone explain me what quantum energy is ?. Very symetrical indeed can some one explain me why ?. Can I use it as a music video? :). Can you share the source code?. Amazing! My quantum and pchem professors basically had us wave at the time dependent schröddy as we quickly drove by, slurping up large cokes and inhaling Big Macs at the time independent equation down the street. Awesome!

I assume the center of the original wavefunction lies along the diagonal of the box? I'd be curious to compare to if it was off the diagonal..  >Let me know if you have questions or suggestions for other things to try! 

Yep, could you eli5 please?

e: sorry, chiming in from r/all here.. What colormap is this?. It looks quite smooth. Did you generate the initial state by transforming from the circular well's basis to real space and then to the box's basis, or is there a more clever method involved?. Awesome!!! Such simulations, namely their beauty,  are the best motivation for me to create them on my own. Thank you for making this.
I wonder asking, Is it real-time recording, or does it have increased Playback speed?. What are the spatial basis functions for a circular well again? Bessel functions?
Sorry. It's been 20 years since my undergrad :). What if the particle tunnels out of the box?. This is amazing and pretty hypnotic. 

So superpositioning of the particle is not simultaneously in all places at all times? Is superpositioning the same as quantum entanglement? Sorry for all the question.. Would love to see a transparent, spherical representation of this..... Neat. Really interesting! Do you know the category of complexity this belongs to? As in, would a quantum computer solve this in orders of magnitude less time?. Yeah a question: How did you installed OpenCV in the first place?. Great point. The integrability of the square well makes things very regular. I hope to try other systems, but need to write some more code. The box has the nice benefit that my basis states are analytic. I would also like to see scars. Perhaps I could do a side by side video with only slightly different initial conditions to demonstrate how the scarred state has peculiar behavior?. Wow -- yes. This Falstad applet is fantastic. Everyone should check it out!.     Error: Permission denied to access property "path" loading file ../swingjs/j2s/core/package.js: core.package - undefined
    
    tryToLoadNext@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3691:15
    evaluate@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3461:16
    loadScript@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3555:13
    LoadClazz/</</_Loader.loadClass@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3231:13
    LoadClazz/</</_Loader.loadPackageClasspath@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3088:11
    LoadClazz/</</_Loader.loadPackage@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3249:10
    LoadClazz/</</_Loader.loadClass@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:3131:11
    LoadClazz/</</_Loader.loadZJar@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:4437:10
    LoadClazz/<@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:7595:17
    LoadClazz@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sSwingJS.js:7660:4
    __loadClazz@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sApplet.js:1644:4
    __nextExecution@https://www.falstad.com/swingjs/js/j2sApplet.js:1605:7

:(. If I kick a ball, and right after I kick the ball, I measure it's velocity and position, then I can calculate the ball's path with good accuracy. That is, I can predict where the ball will be located at any point in the future. This is how things work in classical physics.

In quantum physics, that isn't the case. If you know the initial state of a particle, then you still can't calculate the particle's path. What you *can* do is calculate the *probability* that the particle will be located at any given point at any point in the future.

That is what this gif represents. We know the particle starts in the top-left, and then without watching it move (i.e. we walk away and let the particle do it's thing), the colors indicate our best guess at where the particle is located at some point in the future. Let the gif run for a couple seconds and then pause. Pixels that are black here indicate a near-zero probability that, if you checked where the particle was at that frame (i.e. went into the box and measured it's position), you would find the particle there. Brighter colors indicate a higher probability of finding the particle at that pixel.

In particular, note that, at the start, halfway point, and end of the gif, we see just a single circle of colors in one of the corners of the box. At the start of the gif, this represents us knowing the initial state of the particle. At the halfway point of the gif, this represents us actually being able to predict the particle's position with decent accuracy in the future. Between the start and halfway point, we basically have no idea where the particle is (indicated by the chaotic movement of the colors all over the box), but at the halfway point, those colors converge in the bottom right. This tells us that, if we measured the particle's position at that point in time, it would certainly be in the bottom-right.

This is known as ~~the Born interpretation of quantum physics~~ Born's rule. Particle's are actually wavefunctions. Wavefunctions are solutions to the Schroedinger equation. The Born interpretation states that the probability a particle will be located somewhere in the future is equal to the square of the wavefunction evaluated at that position and point in time.

Sorry for the unsolicited lecture, haha.. and if anyone says they do, they're confused or lying.. It's challenging and counter-intuitive and you really need to delve into the math to even approximate a good understanding of it. 

I find that, for myself, a good first step is to give up on the idea that particles are equivalent to hard little balls of *stuff*. I find that it's a lot easier to conceive of particles as being waves all the time. It's just that when we take a measurement, the wave collapses down to a narrow crest that looks like a hard little point to our instruments (but which really isn't)

Obviously, this is a serious oversimplification of the picture (and I fully expect to get some objections to this characterization), but I think that it can serve as a good conceptual gateway before getting into the hard part, which is the math.. Same. Basically, it's a bunch of wibbly-wobbly stuff with some sort of rounding or stair-stepping of values, and a few non-straight-line math (stuff can go around without changing direction in some cases), and when  the waves interact at large scales/large time-spans, it averages out to stuff that look normal to us (but blurry if you look closely).. I've been thinking about how to do this. One idea is to map the momentum-space wave-function amplitudes to frequency amplitudes. I may give this a try. Curious if anyone else has ideas about how to do this.. I gotcha covered: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SaCiaQR8x4c. So good! Thanks for sharing.. [removed]. I will happily send the mp4 file to anyone who wants to put music to it.. I use space and time units where hbar\^2/(2m)=1. The side of the box has length pi and time is measured in units of the inverse ground-state energy of the box hamiltonian. The simulation runs for about 13 of those time units.. Thanks for thefor idea! Can you point me to a reference about this? A quick google search didn't work.. In a manner of speaking, yes! At the very least, the probability distribution for observing the particle at different places separates and comes back together.. Think of it as a wave in a body of water and each peak is a place the particle might be and each valley between the wave is somewhere it won’t be. I think this is a plot of the wave function for the particle, so you can think about it as the probability of finding the particle in a given place at a given point in time.. Thanks!. That's pretty sweet. Apart from the quantum mechanics on display, the visualization is very nice. What software did you use to make that?. the modulus-squared of the probability amplitudes. Quantum Rave party. [The page](https://chem.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemistry_Textbook_Maps/Supplemental_Modules_(Physical_and_Theoretical_Chemistry)/Quantum_Mechanics/05.5%3A_Particle_in_Boxes/Particle_in_a_2-Dimensional_Box) has a great description of solving the 2D box eigensystem. And yes, it's very similar to the process for solving the 1D case due to the "separability" of the x and y dimensions. The circular potential case is a bit different because the circular boundary conditions mix the x and y dimensions, thereby breaking the separability. For that, I use a numerical approach.. Yes! Due to the symmetry of this system and the initial conditions, the wave pattern eventually constructively interferes such that the probability is piled up in a location that's a mirror image (mirror-imaged across the diagonal line from lower-left to upper right) from where the particle started. If you were to observe the particle at that time, you would most likely find it in that bottom right corner.. Hadn't heard of him, but I'll check out some of his hard scifi. Looks interesting.... They may have used Python for this, but they definitely didn't use OpenCV as OpenCV is an image processing library. This is just a simulation.. See this response: [https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/m2fylo/time\_evolution\_of\_a\_quantum\_particle\_in\_a\_2d\_box/gqkc9ps?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/m2fylo/time_evolution_of_a_quantum_particle_in_a_2d_box/gqkc9ps?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3). Thanks!. Excellent question. This is called "[quantum revival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_revival)" and it is a property exhibited by many quantum systems, though complete revivals on short timescales like this only occur for special classes of "integrable" systems. This is the quantum analog of classical systems with closed phase-space orbits.. No, though I can see why it might come to mind from the grid-patterns.. You mean, like an interference pattern?  The kind that might be created by a standing wave bouncing around inside a 2D box?  Huh... Weird..... If you are asking if it's supposed to turn into a grid shape like this, then the answer is yes. There are some regions of high probability, separated by low probability. But it's hard to answer the question as you phrased it, since "high-probability wells" are *defined* as regions surrounded by low probability.

The mechanics of the probability wave is very much like that of a water wave. So instead of the particle, you can imagine a large glob of water splashing into a pool. The ripples will be more chaotic in some regions, while some spots of the pond barely move. The chaotic spots correspond to the high-probability regions here.. Thanks!. This pattern results from solving the time-dependent Schrodinger equation.. The time-dependent Schrodinger equation. See my comment at top for answers to both.. I have some source code for the 1D case [on github.](https://github.com/dhudsmith/schrod/blob/master/examples/time_evolve.py). That example uses the matplotlib library. For the 2D case, I'm actually using OpenCV instead. I followed [this tutorial](https://opencv-python-tutroals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/py_tutorials/py_gui/py_video_display/py_video_display.html#saving-a-video) for writing a video file with opencv. In that tutorial, they read frames as numpy arrays off a video capture source (eg webcam), do something to it (eg grayscale the image), then write it to a file. In my case, I compute numpy arrays rather than read them off a capture source. Otherwise it's the same.. Thanks!. See [this comment.](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/m2fylo/time_evolution_of_a_quantum_particle_in_a_2d_box/gqkc9ps?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3). >phase

I have attempted to convert the evolving global phases of the box eigenstates into audio and sync that audio up with the picture. Post on r/quantum: [https://www.reddit.com/r/quantum/comments/ma2u9x/audiovisual\_representation\_of\_quantum\_dynamics\_in/?utm\_source=share&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/quantum/comments/ma2u9x/audiovisual_representation_of_quantum_dynamics_in/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3). Let me know what you think!. ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/m2fylo/time_evolution_of_a_quantum_particle_in_a_2d_box/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo)&#32;|&#32;[**Donate**](https://ko-fi.com/getvideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo&message=https://np.reddit.com//r/Physics/comments/m2fylo/time_evolution_of_a_quantum_particle_in_a_2d_box/). I've added "tunneling example" to the list of things to try out.. The dynamics of quantum mechanical systems are governed by a particular wave equation called the [Time Dependent Schrodinger Equation](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/quantum/Scheq.html). Roughly speaking this equation says that the time evolution of a state is determined by a description of the different energy components in your system (the "Hamiltonian"). In some ways this is similar to non-quantum intuition arising from, for example, F=ma. But in quantum, the state of a particle is expressed as a wave rather than as a point. If you specify an initial state for your quantum system, you can use that wave equation to find out what happens to it later in time.  As for *how* you do all that, well, that's too much to fit into a reddit comment. But keep plugging away one homework problem, one Reddit thread, one class at a time and you'll get there!. I have developed a 2D version of the 1D code published here: [https://github.com/dhudsmith/schrod](https://github.com/dhudsmith/schrod). Conceptually, the 2D approach is identical to the 1D approach, just an extra dimension to contend with. I plan to integrate the 2D code into that repository before long.. Thank you for asking. I was scared to >_< 

This is super. Embrace the Moyal bracket!. I see I misunderstood your question. Yes, the initial state is on the diagonal. I've played around with putting it in different places, but need to explore this more.. I have generated more of these with different initial conditions. [View them here](https://www.instagram.com/p/CMSiSU7nCpO/?utm_source=ig_web_copy_link).. There is an equation called the schrodinger equation. It will tell you how a "particle" behaves in a given potential.  

A potential is a function that gives you your potential energy at any point. This might sound like nonsense, but there's a simple way to visualize it. Imagine a landscape with lots of hills and valleys. The height is like a potential. You will tend to roll down the hills, and hang out in the valleys. You might imagine that you would get stuck down in a valley and stop moving, but if you remove friction, you can imagine you'd be sliding all over the landscape forever.  Or if you start low in a valley, you will stay moving around in that valley forever. 

The schrodinger equation is separable in space and time, as long as your potential isn't time-dependent. What this means, is it is a lot easier to solve if your landscape is still. If the peaks and valleys move like waves on a lake, you're going to have a much more difficult time than if they are stationary.  

A circular potential well is like a circular valley, where the hills around it just grow infinitely up. A square well is like being in a box that has infinitely tall walls.  

Separable in space and time means that the schrodinger equation can be broken up into two equations. One that gives you the solution in space, and one that gives you the solution in time. The "solution" is what is known as a wavefunction. And this is why I put particle in scare quotes at the beginning. The wavefunction tells you everything you can know about the state of your system. Things like "Where is the particle?" and "How fast is it moving" are answered by looking at the wavefunction. 

If you solve the spacial part of the schrodinger equation, the Time Independent Schrodinger Equation (TISE) In general you will get a bunch of solutions. But you are able to add up these solutions, and what you get is stil a solution. This is a result of the linearity of schrodingers equation. It is a linear differential equation. This isn't super important, all that matters is that if you add the solutions, you still have a solution.  

Each of the many solutions you have has a well-defined energy. And the time part of the schrodinger equation relates this energy to how the solution will behave in time. This part of the equation is especially easy to solve, and so once you've solved the TISE you can see how your solutions change in time.

The TISE solutions generally constitute a complete basis. All this means, is if you choose some arbitrary starting wavefunction, you can cleverly add up your solutions to represent it. Basically the solutions you found act as building blocks that you can use to construct any wavefunction.   

So if you can take an arbitrary wavefunction and build it out of blocks, and you know how the blocks evolve with time, then you know how the wavefunction will evolve with time.  

What OP did was they solved a circular potential, and they picked the solution with the lowest energy. This is the ground state of the circular potential. They then put that solution in a box. In other words, they solved the box, and represented the ground state of the circular potential out of the solutions from the box. They then let it evolve in time.. I made a custom colormap using matplotlib's `LinearSegmentedColormap` class. I use the following colors: 

    vibrant_1=np.array(
            [(0, 0, 0),  # black
             (0, 120, 255),  # https://www.color-hex.com/color/0078ff
             (189, 0, 255),  # https://www.color-hex.com/color/bd00ff
             (255, 154, 0),  # https://www.color-hex.com/color/ff9a00
             (1, 255, 31),  # https://www.color-hex.com/color/01ff1f
             (227, 255, 0)  # https://www.color-hex.com/color/e3ff00
             ]) / 255. I used the box basis when creating the initial state. So, there was no transforming necessary. I plan to do some animations involving non-box hamiltonians. This will require the type of transformation you describe if I understand correctly.. Hmm. Since I don't use physical units, it's hard to relate the speed to real time.. Yes, cylindrical Bessel functions, I believe. Impressive recall!. Here op is assuming it is an infinite potential barrier and therefore the particle cannot leave the box.. What the other person said is valid, but you could also just make your universe just a box. I believe this gif is demonstrating the superposition of position states of the particle and the evolution of that superposition over time.

Superposition is not the same as entanglement. Entanglement is the phenomena where combinations of results of particular subsystems are correlated, even though the individual results of measurements of subsystems can still be random.

The classic example of this is where you have two spins, and whenever you measure one (which is up or down) the other one must spin in the opposite direction -- however, you can calculate the probabilities according to quantum mechanics and find that the probability of either is 1/2.  Nothing about the actual outcomes is predetermined, merely the fact that the spins must be antipolarized to each other.

Overall, entanglement is the phenomena in which the quantum state of a composite system is irreducible -- we cannot express it or think of it as a composite state of multiple particles or anything like that.  The actual state of the system must be viewed as one multi-particle collective object.  So for the two entangled spins, there really is no such thing as the individual particles with those spins -- they must be viewed together as a single object.

Mathematically, what this means is that the entangled state cannot be written as the product of two single-particle states (or in general, as a product of many single-particle states).. You’re seeing the different frequency modes hit their peak and trough amplitudes at different times, like how you would see the peak of a harmonic sound wave reach the peak of the fundamental frequency moving along a string. Well - sort of. When you zoom in really close, particles are not 'little balls of stuff' like you're used to imagining them, but rather kind of like a smeared out blob. This video shows us how a particular 'particle blob' behaves inside of a box.

To be more precise - a particle can be in any one of many places (some are more likely, others less, others are so unlikely we might as well say it's impossible for it to be there), but the odds of it being in a SPECIFIC spot in space are pretty low. This gif shows us how the likely positions of a particle change as time progresses!

This whole 'it could be in any one of a number of places at the same time, with different probabilities' is known as superposition.

On the other hand, none of this has anything to do with entanglement, which is about how two particles might give off the appearance of somehow interacting with each other at very large distances.

Feel free to ask if you have any further questions. What do you mean by spherical?. [deleted]. Please do! I actually study (many body) scars in my work, they’re fascinating.. Be sure to check out their other ones too!. Your safari (or whatever browser you use) is probably not allowed to run JavaScript. This is to prevent malware because many malicious scripts are written in JavaScript but you can pretty easily change this in your browser settings (there should be an actual button that says “allow to run JavaScript”). Don’t you mean Born *rule*, not interpretation?

Or is there a Born interpretation where the wave function is considered to *be* the particle?. Thank you! I do understand the gif better now and appreciate the time you took to explain it!. This was an awesome explanation, thanks. Where did you learn this? University? I am also interested and am considering studying up further. Why is the probability higher in some places than others at any given time?. Or they are just familiar with it having worked in the field. You don’t quite understand the why but at some point you have a good grasp on the how. Hence your simulations!. That depends on what you mean by understanding it.

We absolutely understand how to do calculations and how to make accurate predictions about quantum systems.

The question of what those calculations *mean* is more challenging and (many would argue) more philosophical.

There are certainly no lack of explanatory theories. I'm partial to many-worlds, for instance. Figuring out a way to discern which, if any, of those theories are valid is more challenging, of course. Indeed, a lot of people in the shut-up-and-calculate camp actively disparage such efforts.. "If you think you understand quantum mechanics, you don't understand quantum mechanics" - Richard Feynman. Is the momentum-space wavefunction p(x, y) akin to a Fourier transform of the position-space wavefunction? If so, you could take the radial average of this Fourier transform to create a new, 1d function F(r) = avg({ p(x, y) | x^2 + y^2 = r^2 }). Then, take the inverse Fourier transform and interpret the result as a sound wave.. How about just some EDM dubbed over it. [removed]. Sure. Something like [this](http://physics.wooster.edu/JrIS/Files/Salem_Web_Article.pdf) would be a good place to start. This was written by an undergrad probably but it seems to be alright and the references therein are also well chosen. > the probability distribution for observing the particle at different places

As a side note, this is probably the more correct way of describing it, physically. I.e., it is correct under more self-consistent theories of quantum mechanical phenomena than saying that's where the "particle" "is".. Thanks! I just used python, and matplotlib was used for visualization. Here's the repo if you're interested. 

https://github.com/camlaedtke/Physics-Simulations/blob/main/Schrodinger%202D.ipynb. Wow, that truly moves in mysterious ways. 

Could you plot for us the dx dy contribution the kinetic energy expectation?  or the quantity proportional to it,  ψ* ( d²/dx² + d²/dy²) ψ(x,y). Wait a second, the probability amplitudes are the outcome of taking the absolute value of the wave function and squaring it, are they not. The wavefunction, itself, isn't a probability distribution because it's complex and can have negative values that don't make sense as a probability.

Surly you aren't squaring the amplitudes after you've already derived the probability distribution? That would seem like an unnecessary extra step.. I know this is a very simplified model not easily reproduced in reality, but could one imagine a way to verify this (or something approaching this) experimentally?. You absolutely need to read a story of his called [Border Guards](https://www.gregegan.net/BORDER/Complete/Border.html) which revolves around the game of quantum soccer.. >I use Python here. Numpy to solve the Schrodinger equation and OpenCV to create the video.

They said they did in the first comment. Maybe they stuck together images taken at close intervals.. Thought so but it's been a few years. Incredible. Purely incredible. Wish I found this before lol. What about 3D?. Love these! Thank you for sharing!. Good explanation.. Also, if you’re interested in colormaps, I recently stumbled upon this video about creating perceptually uniform colormaps: https://youtu.be/xAoljeRJ3lU. I’ll never use jet again!. Awesome! It somehow reminds me of a lava lamp. Boutta run this on a cylindrical monitor above my aquarium. But the initial state depends on the well's position and radius, which are in real space. Did you calculate it analytically maybe?. Ha. Had a good PDEs prof. A few bits like that stuck around.. he wants a computer monitor in the shape of a sphere. They likely mean the 3D case which you can visualise by making certain colours/ levels transparent.. Will do!. It's working now; I don't think I changed anything since that time, I guess it was some sort of server issue.... You are correct, my bad.. I thought it was more like the wave function is the "real" thing and a particle is just a convenient model in some specific cases?

Or does that stem from the debate between Copenhagen, Everettian, etc interpretations?. It is often the simplest of questions that lead to the most insightful solutions. 

This is one of those cases. You asked a simple yet important question (or at least your comment implied the need for an answer), and you got a beautiful, insightful solution. That is what it is all about.. Indeed. You learn about the basics quantum mechanics in a physics bachelors. There are plenty of books and coursework online you could check out if you're interested.. It's just because of how the wavefunction evolves over time. There is a famous equation, called the Schrodinger Equation, which describes that evolution. 

It analogous to how water in a box would ripple if you dropped a stone in it. If you take a snapshot of the water at any given point in time, some parts of the water will be higher than others and you can create a mathematical description of that evolution so that you can predict where the water will have crests and where it will have troughs at any given slice of time.. You're right of course. I had the "why" in mind.. Nah, the more you learn about quantum, the more it becomes crazy and you realize you can’t understand it.  Hell, even Einstein eventually decided that quantum was insane.. Agree wholeheartedly. Very true.. Yes, the momenum space wavefunction psi'(k\_x, k\_y) is given by the Fourier transform! I like your idea.. Thanks, I'll check it out. 
I see you've posted a GitHub link to a Jupyter Notebook! GitHub doesn't 
render large Jupyter Notebooks, so just in case, here is an 
[nbviewer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/) link to the notebook:

https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/url/github.com/camlaedtke/Physics-Simulations/blob/main/Schrodinger%202D.ipynb

Want to run the code yourself? Here is a [binder](https://mybinder.org/) 
link to start your own Jupyter server and try it out!

https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/camlaedtke/Physics-Simulations/main?filepath=Schrodinger%202D.ipynb



------

^(I am a bot.) 
[^(Feedback)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jd_paton) ^(|) 
[^(GitHub)](https://github.com/JohnPaton/nbviewerbot) ^(|) 
[^(Author)](https://johnpaton.net/). I like this idea and could do so. I'll add it to the list of interesting things to look at.. I think the term "probability amplitude" refers to the not-yet-squared thing: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability_amplitude. Yes, this. OpenCV is just for writing the video.. That would be interesting but I think it would hard to visualize. Maybe they could visualize it as a surface of constant probability that changes shape in a cube.. [deleted]. Thanks for the link! I think most data viz experts would agree with your decision. My color scheme throws caution to the wind as I had more of a focus on the aesthetics than on perceptual uniformity.. Sorry. I was trying to rush through some responses and didn't treat your question properly. Like I said I use the set of 2D box basis functions when solving for the circular state. This involves computing matrix elements of the circular potential in the box basis states. To compute these, I do go into position space discretized on a rectangular grid (720x720 for this video).  I use the 2D Simpson's rule to calculate the integrals over position-space. This can be easily vectorized onto BLAS libraries using numpy to make things pretty fast. If I'm only interested in the ground state, the computation takes < minute. Right now, the longest-running part of the code is generating the colormap :/. I think it's just poorly optimized!. Ah -- thanks for this insight! That does sound cool.. But waves spread equally without an obstacle in the water. As far as I understood the quantum physics the electrons take states by no known order.?. That's an oversimplification that he thought it was insane. He claimed it was incomplete: he was concerned over entanglement and collapse.

This was resolved (in my opinion) by the proof in quantum information theory which states that information is not transmitted faster than light. This is true even in measurement of an entangled state.. I would contend quantum mechanics is both “insane” (aka awesome or wild) and also “understandable” (aka provides useful models and predictions).. If you want help with this, feel free to DM me about it. Your stationary states won’t be analytical so you’ll need to use something to solve the Schrodinger equation here. I’m sure scipy has a variety of tools that would be up to the task. I can help you find the right tools and confirm that you haven’t made any errors. Good bot. It seems like the solution is really similar to a standing wave; it's temporarily very similar to a standing wave on a drum. Only, that it quickly looses the coherence as a standing wave as the components disperse about. 

At t=0, it seems your initial conditions are telling it to stay put (zero velocity everywhere, or that 

arg ψ_₀(x,y) = const

The particle tries to do its best but after some time it disperses. Then at some later time (likely T/2) it reforms at the opposite side of the drum (box). Then disperses again. Reforms at t=T, and repeats the cycle over and over again. 

One could also do variations on the initial condition for totally different solutions by changing the phase on the initial conditions (arg ψ_₀) so that you get a desired initial condition for the field of velocities, call it v_₀(x,y).

One gets velocities via v = ℏ/m ∇ ( arg ψ ). Ah, dang, I see where I went wrong. I got confused between the probability amplitude and the probability density. I confess that my stupid brain keeps flipping the nomenclature on those two.

I appreciate the correction.

Also, I want to say that I love your visualization. I don't want you to assume that I'm being critical of you. You did a great job.. yeah, it's really bad naming, as it's not really an amplitude.. OpenGL? As far as I know OpenCV is C{omputer} V{ision}. The inverse of what we see here.. Takes the visualization challenge up a notch for sure. The computation challenges also go up pretty severely.. I think I understand what you are saying. That would probably be the most effective way, but I think having like a transparent cube with different tinting inside would be cool. Not sure how to achieve that tho.... That was a great presentation!  I didnt care about color.aps before seeing it.. I don't think that I understand your question.

In any case particular example is more akin to waves in a rectangular pool so they reflect and exhibit interference patterns. That's essentially what you are seeing here (again, vastly simplified).. God does not play dice.  
   
Einstein’s core tenant was that probabilistic super positions and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle were not the way the universe works.  
   
Sure, you can say “incomplete”, but he didn’t believe that random chance determined the universe’s evolution. 
  
It’s not just quantum mechanics that Einstein held this sort of belief for, he also was not a fan of the idea of an evolving spacetime.. No worries. We all make mistakes! And thanks for the encouragement!. >OpenCV

Here's the [OpenCV class for writing out video](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/dd/d9e/classcv_1_1VideoWriter.html). I use the python wrapper to this class.. Maybe have the entire cube be translucent and have the colors inside??? Idk how you would do that tho... would you need ray tracing?

Regardless, I would love to have the 2D version as a background. I don’t know if that makes sense, but I think I was wondering how the oscillators(?) would swing in 2D. In water, the oscillators transport the Waves by swinging in circles(?) and I was just wondering if that’s the same case here. Hope that makes sense😂. Aahh I see what you mean now. I agree, he certainly didn't like that one. I was referring to fact that he hated spooky action at a distance.. That is absolutely his objection to the Copenhagen interpretation, but Copenhagen isn't the only interpretation in town. There are plenty of QM interpretations that are fully deterministic. Many-Worlds, Pilot Wave, Transactional, and Superdeterminism to name a few.

Where Einstein was on more shakey ground was in his belief that locality has to be preserved (which was his primary objection to spooky action at a distance).

That said, Einstein absolutely believed in QM and was a major contributor to its development. His Nobel was for his work in quantum theory, after all. He didn't accept Bohr's insistence that QM was fundamentally nondeterministic and nonlocal, but he absolutely accepted that QM was a good (albeit incomplete) description of reality, and there are many physicists, to this day, that largely agree with him (with a few caveats given Bell's inequality).. The key word for that is direct volume rendering. To be fair haven’t we somewhat recently actually shown that non-locality is the more likely reason for the ER=EPR argument(spooky action at a distance). I can’t remember off the top of my head but I think I heard about how we think it’s necessary to solve the black hole firewall issue and some other things, so it’s possible stuff like an Einstein-Rosen bridge might be “real”. Don’t get me wrong I’m still a physics student so I could be completely wrong here.. Ya, he was a major contributor early on, I’m not denying that.  I’m saying in the back half of his career, he did not believe in most of QM.  If you want to read it in his own words, [here](https://journals.aps.org/pr/abstract/10.1103/PhysRev.47.777) is a critique of QM he published in 1935. We're getting past what I'm comfortable claiming to understand lol I do quantum atomic and information but am still a PhD student. If you redefine locality in terms of the transmission of information, a lot of these issues disappear. Quantum systems can be non-local, but you can't use them as an information channel. Locality is preserved for any act involving the transmission of information and (of course) for all classical systems.

I think that if Einstein has been just a bit more flexible about thinking about locality, he might not have been quite so adamant about worrying about action at a distance.. I'm familiar with the paper.

This is his objection that QM must be incomplete (which is not the same as saying incorrect; Newtonian gravity is incomplete but it's still a good description of Nature at a broad level). Nothing about this paper represents a wholesale rejection of QM. He's objecting to the way that Copenhagen interprets QM and he asserts that QM cannot be a *complete* description of reality (again, a view that a lot of modern physicists actually share with him) because it violates locality. This is the classic "spooky-action at a distance" objection to QM that he's always had.

You can absolutely believe in a version of QM that obeys locality. I would say that the majority of modern physicists are willing to give up locality in order to preserve the reality of quantum systems (and Einstein definitely did want to have his cake and eat it too, which was a more viable position pre Bell).

I don't think that there is anything is the paper that says that he's rejecting most of QM. Is there a particular section of this paper that I should be focusing on? Today is Stephen Hawking’s 80th Birth Anniversary (1942-2018). nan. I've never heard someone call a birthday a birth anniversary. I feel like even he's kind of a scientific celebrity most people don't really know how much he contributed to sciences advances. Rest in peace, such a genious.. I'm amazed that he lived as long as he did. He was diagnosed with ALS in his twenties and he was expected to live for another 5 years at best. A life well lived.. Happy Birthday Hawks. I don't even know what he has studied. Too complex.


Thanks for having done it, for me and the rest of humanity.. Today is also when the James Webb telescope unfolded fully … what a nice birthday present <3. Today is Stephen Hawking's 80th Birth Anniversary. I just wanted to make a post in his honour for all that he had managed to do, while sitting on a wheelchair, unable to speak and move. His determination and strength to work and contribute whatever he could being disabled is a big source of courage and inspiration for me. His books were the primary reason I found cosmology interesting as child and now grown up. 

Thank you Stephen Hawking.. We are birthday triplets with David Bowie. I wish we could've discovered how to upload minds. I think he'd have volunteered, once it was deemed safe. We need more physicists with his brilliance and wit.. He’s dead Dave.. Dude lived an incredibly long time for the disease he had.. It's inspirational how despite being stuck to a wheelchair for decades, he still pioneered scientific research and contributed. Incredible. o7. it is sad that he died before the first picture of a black hole appeared.. happy birthday buddy. Your contributions will never be in vain, nor will they be forgotten; Ad Astra.. If he was alive, the strippers would be getting paid.. I have a lot going on in life and this made me cry instantly. He'd be 76 today, not 80. Cant believe it has already been almost four years since he died felt like it happened only a year ago. Great for science, kinda dirtbag person.. Can we get a national holiday for him? If there is a holiday in the US about a genocidal maniac (Christopher Columbus), then there should be one for possibly the smartest man to ever live.. such a great scientist and master of the female body. Edhe 100 franko klb sot. Wow, he would've been 10 years old when Patrick Swayze was born. Could of witnessed all his works in real-time, including his untimely end. And then still another 9 years of life after Swayze. What a lucky guy. He’s dead. He kinda cute tho. Woah. Hawking and Bowie share a birthday!! Just realized this. [removed]. [removed]. Thank you Steven. What a great man!. Happy Birthday Professor Hawking.. Legend. He's dead.. Happy Birthday Dr Hawking you’re an inspiration to many. Legendary scientist!. Shame he didn't live long enough to win the nobel he deserved.. OP is trying to make it happen.. In many languages, the word for birthday is similar to anniversary (such as the French "anniversaire"). I wonder if this is related to OP's choice of wording.. Do we really use "birthday" for dead people, though? Sounds equally awkward.. Fancy folks have birth anniversaries.. *The anniversary of Stephen Hawking's emergence from his mother's vagina*. We can call women birthing people now, this doesn't surprise me.. Well since his passing it would be confusing to call it his 80th birthday.. That’s absolutely correct. I’ve always known he was a contributor to science, but I have no idea what he contributed and/or it’s magnitude. However I’ve always had a profound respect for a person to overcome these enumerable difficulties while following their life’s work and passions. Well done Dr Hawking.. There’s plenty of very informative not really complex books he wrote himself. You should give them a try, they’re definitely amazing. And Kim Jong-Un!. He's dead Jim. Why? I think it was the best time for him to leave us. Just before the world turned to what it is today. He left us a legacy of knowledge and we now and forever stand on his sboulders to look beyond.. I really hope you are doing well, wherever you are. Also it’s alright to cry, it releases a lot of stress. I do not what you are going through but all I can wish is that you be strong. Keep pushing and have confidence in yourself. Have determination like him. All the best!. He died at 76, 4 years ago. What? The genius of this man was unparalleled. Not only that, he had an amazing sense of humor. He actively loved his portrayal in The Simpsons, would run over the feet of people he disliked in his wheelchair (no one could actually get mad at someone disabled), there is a lot more too.. [removed]. [removed]. Penrose is still alive, hence the Nobel. Gretchen, stop trying to make fetch happen. I don't care for it. People do talk about special plays for Shakespeare’s birthday, special concerts on Mozart’s birthday, etc. Why not? It’s the day of their birth, nothing about being alive in there. 

Though I agree this is doubtless why OP went with that. I mean it’s the day you were born…your birthday lmao I don’t see how being dead would alter that or make it awkward. He was a black hole expert. For my work anyway, he pioneered the idea that it is possible to think about particle physics and gravity at the same time and that black holes are the places to do that.. I think I saw a theorem named after him in a semiriemannian geometry book, in a section on cosmology. He was obviously as brilliant as any physicist could ever hope to be, comparable to people like Einstein, Dirac, Feynman, etc.. I’m half Mexican and found out his father invented the burrito in 2011! Go figure!. Lol look at him cheating on his wife w his nurse. [removed]. That is also a requirement, yes.. Well you're streets behind. I heard of a commemorative event for Shakespeare's  500th anniversary or smt... it is kinda awkward. Where I come we from we normally say "100 years SINCE..." we don't use "birth-day" in my language just the equivalent to anniversary which is strictly to add an age to smt and deaf people can't age. My mom preferred eviction day.... One of the most amazing things about him was not only his genius and his contributions but that he was also able to bring his genius to a level that was accessible to non-geniuses and those with only a passing interest in science and a basic school level understanding of the world. The fact that he could do both has been seen in only a very few people. Umm…how?. [removed]. That was precisely his genius : ). He did not teach laypeople any actual physics. But he certainly shared what was feasible, and inspired many to become physicists.

As far as his actual genius…

A layperson who likes nerdy stuff might think of a black hole as a singularity in a Newtonian gravitational field. Someone learning about black holes for their first time in a mathematically rigorous setting might think about them using the interior of a Schwartszchild model of a star’s gravitational field. I haven’t studied Hawking’s work, but I suspect he made Schwartszchild look like a bitch. Do with that what you will.. [removed] Trump team prepares to "roll back funding for nuclear physics and advanced scientific computing research to 2008 levels". nan. He must be very smart not to realise that funding innovation in science is the source of prosperity for countries.
. How is this consistent with his pro-nuclear-weapons stance? Nuclear physics theorists and computing resources are how the US makes sure they have reliable and top-notch nuclear weapons without being able to test them.

Oh. He's gonna just gonna tear up all the test ban treaties, isn't he.. This is really sad. We can see the kinds of advancements physics has made in the past and how those advancements would have either been slowed down dramatically or not happened at all without funding.

Trump does not seem to get how science benefits society. Sad!

I feel bad for all the research physicists and graduate students and post docs who in one way or another are relying on this money to keep their research going, to pay for their education, or to put food on the table.

Besides the disparate impact this will have on individuals, I think the worst part is the impact this will have on the future of research. Once the funding is gone it's not like physicists can just pick back up right where they left off once funding is reinstated 4+ years down the line.

Physics will lose bright researchers who have to change careers and will lose future brilliant minds who won't be able to find research positions and give up. 

It's pretty bleak.. I'm a computational science PhD student and this is one of many reasons why I'm leaving my program at the end of this semester.  Funding is hard enough to get as it is, which has caused university researchers to rely more and more on private sector money.  Companies love it because they get world class research at minimum wage prices.  The result is we don't get to work on what we want anymore, which used to be entire point of academia.  Now we mostly do whatever private companies want us to do, which generally doesn't have any sort of focus on long term scientific impact.

I'm thinking about moving to another country or more likely just getting out of the research world altogether.. Not a big fan of this article. It says they're making dramatic cuts but don't give a dollar figure to what exactly are "2008 levels" nor the difference between 2008 and 2017 nor how much of a budget cut to the govt organizations performing the research. . >We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock the mysteries of space...

By filling in the gaps with "alternative physics.". The article doesn't mention what the amount of funding actually proposed to be cut. I looked it up and it is going to be $476 million instead of  $570 million. That's *only* $94 million in cuts. Not that this isn't a significant amount of money but the article makes it seem like he is gutting the program. 

Edit: There actually many more intense cuts mentioned in the article :

>The departments of Commerce and Energy would see major reductions in funding, with programs under their jurisdiction either being eliminated or transferred to other agencies. The departments of Transportation, Justice and State would see significant cuts and program eliminations.

>The Corporation for Public Broadcasting would be privatized, while the National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities would be eliminated entirely.

Source for the exact numbers:[budgetbook.heritage.org](https://budgetbook.heritage.org). I wouldn't pay much attention to what trump proposes in his budget.

Congress sets funding levels. They routinely take the President's budget each year and just ignore it.

People who worry about science funding focus on the Congressional appropriation bills.. How is stupidity winning so hard?. Well, I guess I'll stop looking for DOE jobs and search instead at the DOD.

Lord knows they won't cut funding for the military, despite the fact that it is a bloated entity larger than the next six countries militaries combined.. This is r/physics. Comments should be *about physics* and the activities and challenges surrounding *doing physics*.

~~Comments are now locked as the discussion has ceased to be even tangentially related to physics or physics funding.~~

**Comments are back open.  We've got a fancy new deep learning, big data, 10 layer deep neuralnet-powered AI patrolling the comments.  Your comment may not show up right away.  But all comments will be reviewed by a person.  We ask your patience as we try this alternative to thread-locking.**

For the future, we will *continue* to host threads that raise important issues in current events *that pertain to physics and doing physics*, and we'll clear the comment sections of distractions by removing off-topic and uncivil posts.  

The time for name-calling and jokes is over. . So I was planning on applying to grad school next year in nuclear physics. Is this a legitimate reason to pursue an alternative field? How much will national labs be affected?. I'm in quantum computing... Shit.. I'm sure the funding will go to an equally respected and necessary department like the Ministry of Propaganda.. It's likely top scientists will go to where the money is. If Trump's America doesn't want to lead it better get out of the way. Humankind is headed toward a better existence, with or without the USA.. This is bizarre. I thought Republicans generally liked nuclear power because the hippies hate it. . Not trying to troll or anything, but is there no incentive for the private sector to take on this research?

[edit] There are some well thought out responses to this. Thanks for the rational input. And thanks for not downvoting me to oblivion like /r/politics would have. . I'm two years into a physics undergrad -- went back to school to switch careers and do something meaningful. I'm going to work in a lab this summer that does research on shielding nanoconductors and building medical sensors. This though ... this news makes me think I should change course now and go into finance.. What were the 2008 levels? How big of cuts are we really talking about in terms of a percentage? I can't seem to find specific information.. Be grateful for any public spending on research that survives the Trump presidency. He hates researchers and journalists, just like his party does. . This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://thehill.com/policy/finance/314991-trump-team-prepares-dramatic-cuts) reduced by 86%. (I'm a bot)
*****
> Two members of Trump&#039;s transition team are discussing the cuts at the White House budget office: Russ Vought, a former aide to Vice President-elect Mike Pence and the former executive director of the RSC, and John Gray, who previously worked for Pence, Sen. Rand Paul and Speaker Paul Ryan when Ryan headed the House Budget Committee.

> The preliminary proposals from the White House budget office will be shared with federal departments and agencies soon after Trump takes the oath of office Friday, and could provoke an angry backlash.

> &quot;The Trump Administration needs to reform and cut spending dramatically, and targeting waste like the National Endowment for the Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities would be a good first step in showing that the Trump Administration is serious about radically reforming the federal budget,&quot; said Brian Darling, a former aide to Paul and a former staffer at the Heritage Foundation.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/5pr998/trump_team_prepares_to_roll_back_funding_for/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.65, ~52085 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PM's and comments are monitored, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *keywords*: **budget**^#1 **Trump**^#2 **office**^#3 **cut**^#4 **House**^#5. Not physics, but science related: "Cuts to the Department of Commerce" are likely to target NOAA and the National Weather Service.  NOAA is obviously involved in research on climate change.  The National Weather Service provides top-notch free weather forecasting.  The for-profit operations have been bribing Republicans for years in attempts to get the NWS killed so they can make more money without a real competitor.. [deleted]. Is there a separate source for the information in this article? There are no references, and it's a lot of "he said, she said.". Welcome to the "Stephen Harper" version of Canada through 2010-2016. That man decimated our scientific community. . [For reference.](http://imgur.com/a/USjf4)

This is a disaster for Nuclear Physics in this country.. The development of the theory and engineering behind fusion reactors is far too important to simply cut from our budget. The possibility of a nuclear fusion based energy source will probably be mankind's "next-step" so to speak. We can't afford to lose out on that opportunity.. oh joy. NONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONONO. Which congressmen are best to complain about this? I will be calling my reps but I live in deep blue territory so I expect them to be on my side with regards to continuing scientific funding. . [deleted]. So what do I do with my job interview for a nuclear fusion project?. [this is the end](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JSUIQgEVDM4). >Similar proposals have in the past won support from Republicans in the House and Senate, who believe they have an opportunity to truly tackle spending after years of warnings about the rising debt.

The problem with tackling spending as a method of debt control is that you also need to maintain revenue. Under Trump's proposed tax plan, that's not going to happen. . My guess would be that he is hoping this will open up competition in the private sector.  Like the unexpected result of Obama gutting NASA.. [Ok, so I searched up the blueprint and found some actual numbers.
](http://thf-reports.s3.amazonaws.com/2016/BlueprintforBalance.pdf)
I'm using the footnote on page 39. Use the search function to find physics.

FY2008 spending was $423.7 million.  FY2016 budget was $591.5 million.  The projected amount for FY2017 is $601 million.

The blueprint assumes that FY2008 was increased only for the rate of inflation giving a FY2017 amount of $487 million.

So the actual dollars are about $64 million more that 2008.   If the inflation numbers are accurate then in real dollars the difference is zero.  . [removed]. Didn't Obama defund NASA that seems like a lot of physics funding.. Where was all this bitching when the decision to borrow trillions and give it to insurance companies was being made?. I really hate to get political but there is one question that I am genuinely curious about.   **What percentage of current advanced physics research will have meaningful impacts on the lives on the everyday person in the next 20 years?**  I understand that nuclear energy research could produce huge benefits by giving us cheaper and cleaner energy, but what about advanced GR or astrophysics research?  I don't think it should be defunded, but I am also curious if there is a quantifiable benefit to having that research go on.  

Edit: minor wording changes

Edit round 2: Thanks to everyone who downvoted this without explaining why.  As someone who wrote and received two competitive grants in undergrad, I'm sure you're going to have a fun time getting funding when you can't explain why your research deserves to be funded.  On a serious note, thank you to everyone who gave *serious* replies.   . Studying Computer Science right now, how much will this affect me? I'm set to graduate in 2019. You're gonna see lots of headlines like this because believe it or not, the US is in a shitload of debt and all kind of shit is overfunded as hell.. Have they been over-funded since 2008?. So convince them not to, it's not like they can't be reasoned with. . You all seem to forget that private research firms can step up and fill the gaps, possibly with contracts provided from the government now that the money isn't tied up here.. We are over 20 trillion in debt guys. When Kennedy did the lunar mission debt as a share of GDP was less than 10% of what it is now. 

If we don't fix our financials there will be zero funding in the future.. Any rational and objective thinker knows how awful trump is for this planet.

That’s why he courts the irrational and stoic.. When the school bully that never understood anything and resented everyone else grows up and sets the academic research budget.. Want local jobs?  The supercollider in Texas shouldn't have been cancelled.   Fund disease research, fund NASA, open a new nuclear plant every ten years to further the tech maybe decommissioning old ones.   We want to encourage STEM jobs, and more people will get an education then.. have you ever been playing civ and won a war with knights and crossbows against a civ with infantry and planes? didn't think so. . Right wing economic rhetoric purports that scientific research will be adequately funded privately by corporations once taxes and regulations are cut. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. That's probably what he is thinking.The truth is even with nuclear tests, high-performance computing and lab tech are pivotal for maintenance of our deterrent, and these programs deserve support.. > I feel bad for all the research physicists and graduate students and post docs who in one way or another are relying on this money to keep their research going, to pay for their education, or to put food on the table.

I was a PhD student when the sequestration hit and did not get funding to continue my research (five years in, by the way). I took a leave of absence (up to one year) in hopes that somebody would get money and want me in their group. Then we had the government shutdown. I am finally ready to go back to get that PhD, but I'm doing it in Germany, because there's no way I'm going to play dice with funding in the US again (plus, I don't see the importance of the graduate tests, classes, and qualifiers after having already gone through that my first time). Looks like that was a prescient decision. For the record, I currently work at the Department of Defense.
. I'm actually sort of glad that I decided to put off physics grad school now. I might have unintentionally dodged a bullet. 

What a shame though.. Similar to what other people are saying, one of my main plans as a nuclear engineer is to move to Europe.  From what I have heard from my friends that have moved over there is that they treat their employees much better and there are more available jobs. I just feel little loyalty to a nation that is acting idiotically and has never helped me in any special way. . Nah they'll all move to China. > This is really sad. We can see the kinds of advancements physics has made in the past and how those advancements would have either been slowed down dramatically or not happened at all without funding.

I'd like to see more, specifically, on this. Like some sort of visual aid so I can explain this easily to people who think scientists are just fat cats pushing for worthless research to enrich themselves. . I'm currently looking for postdoc positions and I'm pretty worried. The funding situation for the next 4 years is looking pretty bleak.. To be fair he is not getting rid of it, he is just cutting it back. I am not sure why people think that we can just continue levels of spending unheard of and ignore the 20 trillion dollar debt that we have rung up. That means cutting funding for programs in some cases. Nobody likes to be the program that is cut but I it has to be someone. If he does this across the board and brings are spending back to normal levels that we can start to repair the foundational health of our economy and a spend cycle can start again.. I quit my degree because the machine I was working on got its funding cut. This is the way of the future. Sadly the only reason why the West ever funded research was not to fall behind the USSR.. Sad to read this. I'm about to graduate with a PhD in biomedical optics. I'm torn about whether to stay in academia or go to industry. But it does seem like industry is taking over academia, so is there really a difference?. [deleted]. You should consider going abroad. There are lots of countries funding research at record levels, even offering free tuition and covering living expenses. . The administration hasn't released anything yet.  Your best bet would be to look to find the Heritage Foundation's proposed budgets that this will all be ~~copied and pasted from~~ based on.. The stimulus bill went into effect in 2009. Given the nature of budgeting in the federal government, a lot of stimulus spending became baseline budget levels. Thus, rolling back funding to 2008 would solve for the perversion of the baseline funding by the stimulus. Of course, there's a lot of nuance lost on such an approach, like accounting for legitimate increases to ongoing spending and inflation, but that's why 2008 is the year. . Goes right along with his alternative facts. A 16.5% cut seems pretty large to me, though. Maybe not quite "gutting" it, but big enough to a have a serious impact.. [deleted]. [deleted]. Not all scientific research is listed under the General Science, Space & Technology section. Specifically, the [second item under the National Defense category](http://budgetbook.heritage.org/national-defense/cut-funding-for-non-combat-related-research/) recommends that an additional $135 million per year would be cut from non-combat related DOD research. This includes many physics grants.. Because it's not stupidity. You guys are listening to "The Hill" which is part of the fake news network of networks who don't give the full story.

Hope you're enjoying the Koolaid.. This comment is about physics, but since the source of this article is the Hill I'd say it's politically slanted. . > Well, I guess I'll stop looking for DOE jobs and search instead at the DOD.

I was looking into DoE jobs as well, until Trump signed a Federal hiring freeze into effect today. All hiring frozen "except for the military folks". . > deep learning, big data, 10 layer deep neuralnet-powered AI

That's no way to talk about /u/Wodashit — despite appearances he must have more than ten brain cells. > The time for name-calling and jokes is over.

Name calling, sure, but jokes are funny. I'd imagine the national labs that do particle acceleration get pretty hard (Like Brookhaven) but depending on what you want to do specifically it's hard to say, and it's really hard to say anything based on this article. Until we see numbers we don't know what's getting cut.

 A lot of my High-Energy grad friends all do work at CERN or with their data, which probably won't be effected by this at all. Do you have any desire to move out of the US? Europe has some extra opportunities from what I've seen.. Ph.D. or Master's degree? A Master's should be fine. Even if everything stopped tomorrow, there'd be plenty of data to look at.

I'd be very wary about starting a Ph.D. in the field right now. Nobody knows what's going to get shut down over the next few years.. How's quantum computing going? And how's it going with the quantum blockchain?. Uhm DARPA funds quantum computing as well so you are mostly fine.. I think they will call it the Department of Citizen Enlightenment through Alternate Facts. Ministry of Truth. Current research in nuclear physics doesn't really come to bear on nuclear power/weapons, at least not as far as I know. Advanced scientific computing might, though, since simulation is now the primary way to test nuclear weapons.. well they just decided to stop wasting money on useless things and allocate budget the grotesquely underfunded military. Does the private sector even do research beyond the "6-month to market" type anymore?  Bell Labs gone, HP Labs gone, IBM Labs pivoting to market focused big-data stuff....  I work at a university institute where people do PhD theses on literally things like basic reliability issues during manufacturing for specific semiconductor companies.  The company get the research at the cost of half a PhD student (which is poverty wages), government pays the rest and they assume none of the risk.    Not much room for Blue Sky research in universities anymore it seems and now for the US, probably less room for applied either.  On top of that, Boomer profs retire, replace them with a sessional lecture who makes a quarter the salary and does no research, pocket the rest into a new "Assistant to the Assistant Dean of Student Integration" and you're done.

. Private sector research is generally tailored toward specific outcomes, like building a higher density hard drive or moving data faster through a microwave radio.  There was a time when the private sector did a lot of basic research too (the shuttered Bell Labs is a famous example), but those days are largely behind us.

Private industry relies a lot on government-funded scientists doing basic research to push forward applied research. As Carl Sagan correctly pointed out in "Demon Haunted World", if the Queen of England had spent huge amounts of money trying to develop to television in the 1800s, she would have failed.  It was Maxwell, tinkering around in his government-funded position that discovered the equations that made television possible.  All the money directed at inventing the TV probably would not have discovered those equations.  

If there is a breakthrough in something like cancer research, it is probably going to be based on basic science done at universities.  It is probably going to be impossible to discover without future discoveries made at government-funded labs.  . Not really, because the monetary gains that *might* come from some of this research, assuming it can be productized in some way to begin with, is typically years off. Companies don't want to invest in this if it's too long-term since it's hard to justify (to shareholders) spending money on it if there are no immediate gains.. One time Andre Geim (2010 Nobel Laureate in Physics, graphene) gave a colloquium and I asked him about whether he had been approached to patent this technology. He basically told me that after their work started getting some attention, a very large company (maybe it was IBM) approached him, but after they internally reviewed it, they decided they were no longer interested. He said it was because frankly, they want something that can have a marketable impact in ~6 months. Having the intellectual property is great and all, but it is very expensive to protect and thus needs something generating revenue and making it a worthy investment.. No, then they would already be doing it.. R&D budgeting is incredibly hard for a hardware company in this industry.  Designing a machine that typically costs millions of dollars and sells only a handful a year is a very risky proposition.  Private customers, especially publicly traded ones, have as much a problem assuming that risk.

The government doesn't fund R&D up front for these machines either, but bids from government organizations like military and DOE often have unique requirements that spur new development and are more forgiving of the rough edges of prototypes.. It would depend on the specific application as well as the timeline involved. Take scientific computation for example. Disney is perfectly willing to fund applied mathematicians to help them make better simulations of materials for the animation studios to use. However, not many companies are going to help fund computational research to simulate fusion energy plasmas unless the government is paying them (see General Atomics). The time scales and profit incentives are vastly different.

I would also mention that scientific research that doesn't have specific industrial applications is still very important, and that's the kind of research that won't be funded by companies. As a hyperbolic example, no company is going to build the LHC on their own. And as a scientist, I believe that research like that is valuable.

The issue with renewable energy research is that the motivator for doing so is to prevent worse climate change on the scale of decades, not years. Companies are short sighted enough that there's no incentive to care about anything past 10 years from now. This is reminiscent of things like the tragedy of the commons, where people (for example) will cut down trees in large numbers for profit but in the process while the next generation has no tree supply left. 

Or, put another way: if profit motive alone was enough to fund this kind of research, then our climate change situation wouldn't be as dire as it is right now.. In 2006, Renaissance Technologies donated $13 million dollars to support the planned RHIC run, as federal funding had fallen short. The lab director, Praveen Chaudhari, was forced out by the end of the year. 

Don't make the government look bad.. Bayh-Dole moved a lot of the research part of the private sector into universities. It allowed industries to invest into universities so that they could use the infrastructures that existed already (experts and a bunch of lowly paid graduate students) to help push boundaries on problems they were interested in without having to pay for a lot of it themselves. Unfortunately, this means that a lot of private sectors will be hit hard by it because they no longer have their own in-house long-term research. . Consider other countries.. Physics is awesome.. [deleted]. Physics can get you into finance and it's more generally versatile. . > building medical sensors

You'll be fine, don't worry. . What career are you changing from and at what age?. Can I ask how you went back to study physics? I know its very difficult for degree holders trying to obtain another degree. . Or just do what you love and move somewhere that will actually value your work as a scientist.. Finance companies often love people with physics degrees. It shows you've got quantitative chops that business/econ people don't always have, and it probably helps you stand out from the crowd of people with finance degrees. . According [to this guy on reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/5ppfkp/trump_team_prepares_to_roll_back_funding_for/dctb4of/), a 16.5% cut.. China's already got the top 2 spots on the Top 500 list & their #1 cluster is like 5-6x faster than our best one.. I finished my doctorate not that long ago. I do have a job now, but am applying to jobs out of the country because I think after Trump guts all these programs, it will be a long and hard recovery.. Also NIST is commerce. . Well, we will. China will probably get to it first because they're willing to dump all their funding into those projects. The beauty of being run by technocrats. . Not sure if this is what you're looking for but Bill Foster from Illinois is a former Fermilab physicist and would hopefully be the go-to congressman for this sort of stuff.. cancelling constellation, then replacing it with 3 commercial crew vehicles, SLS, and a re-purposed orion is hardly 'gutting'. Not really. The budget is primarily under the control of Congress, and that's been Republican for [nearly all of the last two decades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Congress#/media/File:Combined--Control_of_the_U.S._House_of_Representatives_-_Control_of_the_U.S._Senate.png). . >What percentage of current advanced physics research will have meaningful impacts on the lives on the everyday person in the next 20 years?

By its very nature, research is the study of the unknown, so that is impossible to predict.  Beyond that, however, this is missing the point of research as it currently stands.

The value of research is only sometimes to directly influence the "lives of everyday people."  Most of the time, the value is in the education of the workforce.  PhDs and masters students learn how to study the unknown, how to break down problems and come up with workable solutions.  They then take this knowledge and go out into industry generating products that "keep America great."  The value of funding research is partly in the study of the unknown -- of figuring out what comes next -- but it is also in training the next generation of people who are going to create fantastic products.. Pure research always benefits society often I. unforeseen and unintentional ways. The Human Genome Project had no tangible goal besides research, cost like 2.7 Billion and generated an industry that is a huge job creator. I read somewhere the ROI on the project was something like 150 to 1.

Also, NASA invented everything you own.. Sorry you got downvoted so hard. This is a really touchy subject with us physics people, but your question is completely valid and *I've heard it from the public very often when I give astronomy talks to the public*. Stuff like "Why should we give money to astronomy when people like me can't even pay our medical bills?"

 /u/spotta has a great answer to it so hopefully you can get past the overwhelming downvote brigade. Like I said, everyone's pretty emotional right now about having funding pulled again.

To fellow Physics/Science people in this thread **YOU NEED TO BE ABLE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION**. Take some time to try to formulate a response to it instead of just scoffing at people. You need to be able to explain why our jobs are important to people like my grandma because the day to day non-scientist doesn't immediately know the answer and it's important to have the public on our side.

EDIT: Also, just for another answer to your question more astronomy related than just general research related: 

Astrophysics can help a lot of things, most astronomers are doing their part to map out the universe whether it's looking at each of the gas clouds and determining what they're made of or figuring out where the asteroids are that might collide with Earth. Maps are always important if you plan on traveling, but since deep space is so different than Earth you also need to know the environment. A lot of people don't know the loads of cool stuff that can be obtained in space, but asteroid mining has been proposed as a huge source for rare elements and metals that could eventually be done much easier than looking for it in mines here. 

In 20 years **people could be visiting Mars for the first time**. What does that have to do with the everyday human? Like spotta said, it's impossible to predict what we will find when researching the unknown, but we know that the Space Race (to the Moon) was the genesis for an innumerable amount of now commonplace items/technologies like Carbon Monoxide detectors, Laptops, 3D graphics, non-reflective displays, tons of medical monitoring equipment and more that I won't list here.

Some of the technology required for humans to get to Mars safely involves radiation shielding, waste management to a much higher efficiency than we are currently capable of, and a lot of other life support systems. The materials required to make these could easily lead to as many advances as happened during the Space Race, but no one can know that. If humans start setting up a colony on Mars, telecommunications equipment will necessarily need to advance. Faster propulsion systems and safer rockets could be next.

Lastly, not a physical object, but more important I think a lot of people would argue, is it inspires us to dream of a bigger, better future. If humans are destined to never visit another planet, the whole world gets a little smaller and some people would never look to the future with hope. People are intrinsically tied to exploration and that did not stop when we reached all parts of the globe. There could be a generation of people who witness both the Moon landing and the Mars landing in their lifetimes. I get chills when I think of all the children who will get to see the first ever landing of humans on Mars live streamed in 1080p, inspiring them to become the next Wernher von Braun or Elon Musk. . As an aside, your two examples are interesting. Understanding GR gave us GPS, and astrophysics gave us MRIs. . [deleted]. You are not getting political you are just not seeing why basic research is funded by the government and not private corporations. It is VERY risky. The chance of coming out with a worthwhile product is small. That is why such a large some of money and a large group of people is needed to actually have breakthrough and even then a lot of effort is expended on making it commercially available. It is essentially the Private-Public partnership. Public comes up with the ground breaking research private takes it to market. Without the public funding many breakthroughs would not be possible and never come to fruition. I've been published in biochemistry, I don't know if my publication will ever come to anything but the 1000s of other publications that occur might which is the whole purpose.

I am really surprised that you are stating you received two different grants do not understand the basic process of scientific advancement.. It's not an exact answer to your question, but a ton of modern technology can be traced back to NASA and other government-funded research programs. Advanced computing, the Internet, GPS, water filters (or something similar, I don't remember precisely what), and nuclear energy all impact people on a daily basis and have origins in government research. I can provide sources if you want.. Unless you're planning on going into quantum computing research, you will be fine. Software development, cybersecurity, and the tech industry in general will never go away (at least for the foreseeable future) . This specific issue shouldn't impact you unless you're going into a specialized field. 

But it's not good news. Overall, Tump's policies are going to damage the US tech market greatly, but that's a different subject. Expect a big hiring slowdown to come soon.. >You're gonna see lots of headlines like this because believe it or not, the US is in a shitload of debt and all kind of shit is overfunded as hell. 

Yes a lot of things are over funded but this is like trying to reduce your monthly heating bill by replacing the caulking on your windows instead of closing the front door. Science, sadly takes a very small fraction of the budget while tanks that the military itself says that it doesn't need get billions.. The US is not in a "shitload of debt" as a percentage of GDP and this stuff is not "overfunded as hell". You should really check your facts. . Not American, but I'd hope Trump understood the importance of such funding to researchers such as his uncle who was a Professor of Engineering at MIT. . Which private firms would invest in and begin a project like NIF?. There are military vehicles that cost more than what we are spending in research...... Two things:
1) national debt isn't regular debt and it's really not as dire of a situation as being $20000 in credit card debt.  
2) even if national debt was that bad, cutting 100 million a year from science research accounts for 
.0005% of the National debt.... Sure, but the standard Republican beef with this is that it increases taxes to support for government funded jobs ('Bigger government'). Nevermind the nuance behind the spinoff tech and supporting jobs, etc. 

I think the argument here is the the private sector is somehow supposed to to step up and fill the void for these incredibly well established jobs/industries/research avenues. . > The supercollider in Texas shouldn't have been cancelled

Bah, as a particle physicist, I **agree** with the cancelling of the supercollider.  I hate that you have otherwise-scientific people just automatically assume that it was wrong to cancel it without looking at the evidence.

Go read up on it, and try to be objective.  It was right for the project to be cancelled.
. > The supercollider in Texas shouldn't have been cancelled

Behind schedule and over its budget. And yes it cost more to shut it down than complete it, but.. stick to a timeline and a budget. . That supercolider never should have been put in Texas... But politics. Had it simply been an extension to Fermi,  it would have been done on budget and time. Instead they built it in the worst soil possible and had nothing but trouble. . Science and growth are the best resources in the game.. So, materials scientists need not worry. But good luck, theoretical physicists. . [removed]. [removed]. and here in germany, a nuclear phycisist is chancellor. Really? I've been to some of the research labs, Los Alamos and Sandia namely, and the people here have told me that while they do other stuff the primary things they work on with their reactors is keeping the stockpile ready and updated. . You're exactly the kind of person I had in mind when I made my comment.

Thank you for talking about your experience.. Interesting side note (kinda off topic but I figured I'd share). A former professor of mine also does research that's funded by the Department of Defense however her field is Environment and Natural Resources (more specifically water and land usage and its relation to the wild lands, etc.). After Trump was elected, her department had an emergency meeting and concluded that they could no longer use the term 'climate change' for fear that the DoD would cut all of their funding. 

She's afraid that her past works could be used against her and now all new professors and researchers receive training on what terms to avoid and how to prevent being put on watchlists. . > . I am finally ready to go back to get that PhD, but I'm doing it in Germany, because there's no way I'm going to play dice with funding in the US again

This is exactly what a brain-drain looks like folks. Our country is getting dumber. . I'd be interested to hear how you made the move to Germany initially. Perhaps you could PM me and let me know how you found a path/job there? I'm a second year grad student but wanna keep my options open.... I'm in the same boat.. the world will still educate and exceed in physics. Its not like just because the US decided to go to an alternate reality, the rest of the world will follow.

China and europe will take over breakthroughs and advancements in various scientific fields, while the us focuses on repeating how clean coal is.. Why not go, regardless?  Certainly there is a PhD program to enter.  By the time you finish Trump will probably be gone or you can find something in industry.  . Just finished my applications! \o/

:(. Who will?

Physics students? Ph.D. candidates? Post docs? Professors? Researchers?

Surely they won't all move to foreign countries. I'd venture to guess that most would rather stay in the US and do something else rather than move half way across the globe .... Or the myriad of other countries that actually acknowledge the value of science and training scientists. That's what I'm doing (Germany).. Or Korea.  Korea is already enticing US particle physicists away.. I did a quick Google search and found this article: http://diabeticlolita.blogspot.com/2012/11/how-science-has-changed-our-lives.html?m=1.

Pretty much anything you use daily has been developed or changed or in some way bettered by science.

Your cell phone? Wouldn't exist without science.

LEDs? Wouldn't exist without quantum physics.

The Internet? It was originally created as a way for scientists to share findings.. Yea, Industry pays. . Talk to young new professors and look at what their lifestyle has been like post-PhD until they got tenure. Even better if you can meet someone a year or two in to a faculty position.

I did my PhD in a lab that was only a year old when I began grad studies there. Watching my PI race to get tenure and the shitstorm of work and stress it was was enough to make me nix any plans for academia.. Yeah, that was pretty much my plan and the plan of every one of my peers.  My dissertation was going to be 70% corporate funded projects stapled together and 30% unfunded theoretical work done in my spare time.  My roommate is a EE PhD student and his dissertation is likely going to be close to 100% corporate funded research.  Very few people do the "spend 4-6 years on a theoretical problem" dissertation anymore.  It's all 1-year projects stapled together with some bullshit overarching theme laid on top.  Everyone knows it's bullshit but nobody cares as long as the funding keeps coming in.

We still do our best to fit scientific advancement into our projects, and we do most of the time, but there are tons of ideas we have laying around that will never get worked on because nobody wants to pay for it.. If they're going back to 2008 levels, I feel it's the responsibility of the journalist to look up what 2008 levels were and give context to the reader before using words like 'dramatic' to describe the cuts.. It is significant but if you look at the article it mentions this is just funding from the Department of Energy to the specific field of nuclear physics. 
Unfortunately after Fukushima there hasn't been much expansion of nuclear as an energy source. 

Also if you think a 16.5% cut is bad there's a lot of other departments that are definitely more important. It's all on [budgetbook.heritage.org](https://budgetbook.heritage.org). Also keep in mind that physics funding in the US was already laughable.. Yes, there are *way* more cuts for science than just nuclear and advanced science in the Heritage Budget book. Fusion, much of NNSA funding, loads of energy programs that fund physics work, climate change will see funding reductions. This is a radical budget.

Of course, this is only a suggestion since Congress must approve any budgets.. Why is it fake news? Because it has a liberal slant?  It  does.  You won't see me argue that.  Many news sources do.  However, it doesn't make their facts any less factual.  It's a well sourced news piece that reports on the truth.  Sure, there's often opinions in news articles but once again, that doesn't make them fake news.  Fox News is very right leaning and they don't try to hide it but when they report on real, factual things, they are a good news source . Okay. So what's the full story? What did this article omit?

Sorry it says negative things about your Messiah, but that doesn't make it wrong.. ~~Here's the budget proposal:~~

http://rsc.walker.house.gov/files/Initiatives/RSC%202017%20Blueprint%20for%20a%20Balanced%20Budget%202.0.pdf

~~Please feel free to use it to debunk anything that was said in the article.~~

Edit: Please remember you're in /r/Physics, not /r/politics. Most of us here would happily change our opinion on the article if presented with more convincing evidence.

Edit 2: As /u/mjk05d points out, there's nothing in my link that specifically mentions the DoE budgets or it's programs. *The Hill* is reporting on a preview of a Presidential budget proposal (aligned with the Republican Study Committee) which [will not be made public until April](http://www.washington.edu/federalrelations/2017/01/19/trump-transition-previews-budget/). Reading the article again, they simply cite "career staff" as their source. It's also worth mentioning that the President does not create a budget; Congress does. We can only speculate what that's going to look like based on links like mine, so please feel free to downvote my comment. My apologies to /u/Icarus1333 for unintentionally providing a misleading source. . What's the full story?  Genuinely interested.. The Hill is a conservative organization, FYI
. [removed]. You magnificent son of a bitch!. > but jokes are funny

[I have a lousy sense of humor.](http://gfycat.com/GiddyAcceptableEel). "Alternate Facts".  Double Plus Good.. yeah, the term 'nuclear' has been loaded so heavily over time that there is pretty much no other public association with it except weapons or power.. Well that was depressing to read.. What incentive does industry have to do pure research when they get it for "free" from the government?. The corporate model has changed since the 1960s. Huge corporations are looking at quarter to quarter return but there are huge investments being made in [companies doing basic research](http://www.nanalyze.com/2015/12/3-nuclear-fusion-energy-companies-for-investors-to-watch/). 

The difference is there are now timelines, goals and responsibilities to proceed in a timely manner. Somewhere above a Phd student says that he can't whatever he wants when he's funded by private industry. Seems like a good thing to me. Have some accountability, once you graduate you'll have some and it's better to learn now. . The drive to market is the problem. You can't spend your way to a cure or new technology. That comes from an engineer or scientist doing basic research that made take decades to come into fruition. Cancer "cures" will come in the way of targeted medicine designed for your genes. Which there are some in the research phases at the moment. . i like to think about it this way:

without federal spending on research, we would not have GPS (for instance).  think of all the industries that are now totally reliant on GPS.  but then ask yourself if any one of those industries would have invented GPS on its own.  the answer is zero.

you can say the same for just about every important technological advancement over the last century.

the internet, mobile phones, aerospace, radar, etc.  these breakthroughs come from government sponsored research, then move over the private sector where huge profits are made.. Capitalism is a dead-end. Shareholder-driven short-term profit-hungry societies cannot thrive and progress.. Well.. Lockheed Martin is putting a sizeable amount of money into researching fusion, and has been for quite a while. So there is that. EUV lithography is a for profit endeavor that is needed by humanity for advancement. Pharmaceuticals, aerospace, automotive, electronics, communication, all fields that are heavily driven by for profit research. I'm sure there is much more if you feel so inclined as to look in to it.      . I've considered this. Do you know what countries have good programs? . Well... yeah. Astronomy is a tiny field. Finance is a huge field with tons of positions. Y'all are not exactly in the same situation.. I don't think you got a job offer from going counter-flow, you got a job offer because medical physics has way more money. The astronomy side of science has been losing funding for decades now and the few jobs that do open up at undergraduate level (like telescope operators and similar) have PhDs applying.

It's a really sad state of affairs, astronomy branches of universities aren't getting the grants they used to pull in and NASA doesn't really have the money to be funding a lot of what it once did. They'd pulled out of most astronomy projects and pretty much all funding is going towards the JWST. 

Anyway, I don't think it's because you went counter-flow, it's because you went "not astronomy.". Don't want to name job specifics but it was sucking me dry mentally. The conversations with coworkers weren't enriching and the job was highly repetitive. If you can recognize simple patterns, you can do what I did. I'm 28.. It's my first degree. I spent 10 years working and saved up a lot of money. . 16.5% cut to nuclear physics.

If they go back to 2008 DoE funding for HEP, it'll be about a 13% cut. I already closed the webpages, but the FY 2016 amount was $795M and the FY 2008 amount was $688.3M. 

If you want to verify those numbers, you can probably just Google "FY 20XX funding DOE high energy physics" – I'm sure it was some permutation of those words that I searched to find those figures.. I make it 23%. It mostly depends on whether you include construction budget items. It's hard enough to deal with flat budgets when all the costs go up every year. A cut this big in one step will be very damaging.. I actually believe Germany is making the biggest strides over in Greifswald. Their stellarator is capable of actually testing fusion reactions.. This is a good answer, but it doesn't explain why certain research should be funded.  Most pure mathematicians know that their research will *never* see an application.  There are exceptions, but for the most part that is true.  That also does not make it worthless.  It does however present an easy target for a (now) President to gut funding from.  . Do you have specifics on the ROI on scientific funding as a whole?  . Thank you.  This was a good and helpful answer.  . I thought you got MRIs by solving the schroedinger equation for spin-1/2 particles in a changing magnetic fields, or at least that's how it was introduced in my QM class. How did they figure it out with astrophysics?. Why does that mean it should be funded?  The conservative viewpoint is that we should invest in things with a high expected return.  If you're argument for funding is "It could be useful, but we don't know now" then your application will most likely be thrown out.  . I was an Applied Math Major with a biophysics concentration in undergrad and received two grants to study the mathematics and physics of protein folding.  Trust me, I have a workable understanding of how the process works.  

I also studied Economics in college.  That lets me understand that a President who is unhappy with the country's finances (rightly or wrongly) is going to tighten the belt.  He is going to want funding to go to things that will have a more predictable (probably lower) payoff than the examples mentioned above (NASA, GR).  You can not tell me with a straight face that you would expect a fiscally conservative president to aggressively fund scientific research.

Edit: BTW when I wrote those grants, I was sure to explain *why* it was worthwhile to study.  Maybe that had something to do with me getting them.    
. It is actually very much like having a credit card balance.  We have monthly payments the Treasury must make. Currently interest rates are at historic lows and therefore payments are low. If interest rates rise to historic norms our payments will quickly balloon. 

http://www.pgpf.org/analysis/2016/12/higher-interest-rates-will-raise-interest-costs-on-the-national-debt


Currently we spend 200 billion or so on the interest payments. That's a lot of science.  In 10 years we will paying 800 billion a year in interest payments. 

No one likes to hear they are broke. But we are broke and have a spending problem.. The problem with that is is private companies generally want a return on their money in a matter of months or years. Basic scientific research, that may not lead to anything of economic value in the short term, but may yield value in year or decades from now is what the government should fund and is what companies generally won't fund. . > the standard Republican beef with this is that it increases taxes to support for government funded jobs 

Unless the government-funded jobs you're talking about are related to defense. Then suddenly no level of funding is enough. Always has to be more. . I worked for BMW mPower.  The private sector doesn't like throwing money at new tech research when old tech still works .. if it ain't broke don't fix it.  In the end it was Nuscale that got the first license submittal.. Nuclear physics is dominated by government research.  There's Canberra and a few other instrumentation companies, but they don't do a lot of advanced nuclear physics research.. [deleted]. It's a lot more specific than that, though I'm not sure I could venture where exactly the dividing line is. Texas has a more nuanced position on government intervention than you might think from its rhetoric. For example, it spent billions in taxpayer money on building out a new grid upgrade to support distribution to market of West Texas wind energy. That's something you might naively think would be something conservatives would oppose, arguing that the market should pay for the upgrades. But in whatever weird context it came up, enough Texas state-level GOP voted for it to pass, despite all the rhetoric about small government and free markets and anti-green-energy-subsidy and everything.. And this fits neatly into why TTP was dropped: bring outsourced tech jobs back home, reduce Government funding in STEM research programs, and let corporate America pick up the bill.  'Cept it doesn't work like that.  Corporate *anything* fills its own coffers then lobbies Government for help with buying more coffers to fill.  So, how is Trump going to convince corporate America to invest in America?  It's a tough sell - if it was ever intended to be the case in the first place.. >It was right for the project to be cancelled.

Why? I don't know anything about it.. Just have the free-market come up with some use for theoretical physics. . And she's dismantling all your nuclear power plants.... I've always heard her described as a physical chemist.. Wiki reckons her doctorate is in physical chemistry. she's actually closer to physical chemistry. [deleted]. That's more nuclear engineering than nuclear physics. Nuclear physics is closer to particle physics.  . Wow, that is incredibly scary if their caution is well warranted.. Well, he/she would have to stay in Germany after the PhD for it to be a brain drain. Otherwise it's just a graduate degree abroad which happens all the time.. I haven't made it yet there yet, but I'm working towards it (I have even been flown over there to have in person meetings with a few professors). What I did was just find all of the professors doing stuff that I might be interested in (found mostly through google searches that led me to forum posts about good places to get PhD's in my preferred area of specialty), and emailed them with a copy of my CV (put in a format that some research showed was typical for Germany). I wrote what was essentially a cover letter in the body of the email about why I'm interested in their group and want to move to Germany. I got a few responses that way. Additionally, I tried websites like Glassdoor that had PhD positions listed just like regular jobs. Finally, I found [this website to be very helpful](https://www.research-in-germany.org/en/jobs-and-careers/info-for-phd-students.html) for setting my expectations and search parameters, as well as one of the search engines listed on that website showed me one formal graduate school where I applied and a group contacted me with interest. It's a little more like applying to a regular job than it is applying to an American graduate school, which greatly appealed to me (actually, it seems like it's that way in all of Europe).

Let me know if you have any other questions. I'm happy to share all of that publicly (so more people can see it), but feel free to PM me if you want to discuss some potentially more identifying specifics.. Same here. I guess it's off to the tech industry for me.... China current funding model for science is what hte US did back in teh 60s. Fully fund anything that comes their way. Curing incurable diseases, new technologies and future leaders of science will be coming out of China.. While it's true that physics will go on, it's also true that a lot will be missed, simply by virtue of having less scientists and less funding available. . Indeed. Unfortunately I live in the US though.. Other countries getting a leg up on the USA in science is not going to MAGA. Our grad students opting for foreign PhD programs in countries like Germany due to a lack of state side funding will not MAGA.. As a physics PhD student who's about to graduate, I'll say that while I would prefer to stay in the US to get a job, I am also seriously looking at my options in Europe right now... Especially with Rick "abolish the DOE" Perry soon to be in charge of the DOE, which funds and runs most of the national research laboratories in the US.. I'm a Canadian and was largely looking at schools in the United States. But plans are likely changing now.. The Arabs are scooping up scientists as fast as they can. The UAE is opening campuses and technology centers all over.. A huge proportion of the phd students and postdocs are foreigners, so they will simply stay home or go somewhere else.. Not for many phds. . > Fox News is very right leaning and they don't try to hide it 

I agreed with you up to that last line. They do IN FACT try to hide it and deny it all the time. They claim to be centrist, and non biased. They claim to only look right wing because all the media is in the tank or the dems.

They do ok reporting when reporting on factual things. But not always. Look at how they ~~reported~~ promoted the tea party rallies, versus how they reported the anti war ones. It was a fake the tea party was protesting, but given the size, it seems weird they were reporting that every ten minutes while giving much more massive anti war rallies the twice a day treatment. They also had soooooooooooooo many mistakes.. accidentally using the wrong footage that showed much bigger crowds and not all on hannity. Some of it on the new. look at how they accidentally label corrupt republicans as liberals.

hey i dont mind the hannity BS, and the oreilly, but the right winger propaganda machine infects their regular news as well, which is why they tend to have so many polls that add up over 100% or split the negative concept between 3 answers and the positive only gets one.

one in a while the news reporting is good and not complete shit. But it has been proven that people who watch fox news come out less informed than people who cant be bothered to watch the news at all.

. What facts are presented here?  I read the article and it seems like 100% conjecture.  I'm all for criticizing the Trump administration, but can we at least wait until we have the numbers before making judgments?  If he hasn't even released his plan, how can we even know that these cuts are proposed?. I like your comment. What Im saying is that there's a context to these "facts" that aren't being reported, therefore misleading the person reading it.

Think of a headline "Trump shoots down TPP: Siding with China after Saying he's against them!"

Now, because China benefits the most off the United States renouncing the TPP, that doesn't mean that the US had that as a primary intent.

I'm kind of high while typing this so please forgive me.. [removed]. I couldn't find anything about nuclear physics in that document.. [deleted]. I would suggest that the core issue of our time is the a nearly complete preference for the short term. . Exactly.  I mean it's hard to trace back how things started getting this way but I think at least a contributing factor is growing anti-science sentiment.  If a senator/funding agency can't be told how it's going to make their lives better by the end of a 2 year project then it's considered airy-fairy blue sky nonsense for liberals and those who shirk "real" work.  But imagine a crazy world where industry did its own damn product R&D and tax payer money was saved for stuff with no known "time-to-market". Industry already has little incentive for pure research. Most pure research is very risky with no clear profitable application even if it succeeds. Reducing funding for pure research from the government just means other countries more invested in their long-term futures will take the lead (and reap the corresponding benefits).. Even in capitalist societies, basically all scientific advancement has been funded by the taxpayer. Private industry is very obviously bad at scientific and human advancement, instead focusing on short term economic gains.

I mean, name almost any major technological or scientific advancement and the taxpayer is behind it.. Lockheed Martin receives huge amounts of money from the government to do those things.

>Pharmaceuticals, aerospace, automotive, electronics, communication, all fields that are heavily driven by for profit research. 

I'm not that familiar with pharmaceuticals or automotive, but the aerospace industry was/is almost completely government run or funded at a research level. Same with electronics and communication.

The invention of the computer and the internet, and the science behind those things were all from publicly funded scientists, not corporations. 

Way more money than people realize gets funneled through the military and into science research.. They never released a white paper on their progress. That sends signals to physicists that they're no where near anything groundbreaking and that they're most likely behind government labs. Lockheed Marin announces that program anytime they need a boost in their stock price.  . I think it strongly depends on your field. I focused mainly on Germany for other reasons, but there are a lot of good groups for what I want to do there, so it worked out. There was a lot of googling to figure out what schools had people with interesting projects.. [deleted]. Maybe, but China is the future. Germany may be doing good work, but they just don't have the sheer amount of cash to throw at science... > Capable of actually testing fusion reactions

Any tokamak/stellarator that has run deuterium-deuterium shots has "actually tested fusion reactions". In fact the clear leader by this criterion is the Joint European Torus, which remains the only facility which runs deuterium-tritium shots.. I look at it like an ant colony. I don't think anyone knows before they start their PhD that their specific research will 100% be useful or useless. We all go about our own merry ways, trying to stay true to the scientific method and reproduceable techniques, and in the end each PhD generally makes a dent in one direction of the multi-dimensional knowledge-space that is humanity.

But if there are enough ants (researchers) looking for food (beneficial scientific results) chances are at least some of them will be hugely successful. Cutting funding to branches of science is effectively like killing off half the ant colony. Sure, maybe they can still have enough members to keep going, but there's a chance they don't. 

The analogy really breaks down when you consider that many research facilities themselves cost a lot of money just for upkeep. If you slash budgets by 50% you don't get half of the science out, you might make it impossible for that particle accelerator to run entirely.. But on the other hand most of modern engineering is built what was seemingly pointless math research when it was done.. That's the whole reason that we have public funding. For a private company there's no reason to fund research you expect to be useless. But the public can afford to spend lots on "useless" research with the knowledge that a small amount of it will have extremely high returns and that it's unpredictable which.. That's a bizarre question, isn't it? It's far too broad to make any useful decisions. It's like a VC firm - you really don't know if something will take off, so you place lots of bets, some of which end up being moonshots, making the placing of bets worth it. . [This](http://www.iau.org/public/themes/astronomy_in_everyday_life/) is the best source I could find, which says 

> Perhaps the most notable example of knowledge transfer between these two studies is the technique of aperture synthesis, developed by the radio astronomer and Nobel Laureate, Martin Ryle (Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, 1974). This technology is used in computerised tomography (also known as CT or CAT scanners), magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs), positron emission tomography (PET) and many other medical imaging tools.

Saying "gave us MRIs" is a strong statement - equivalently, GR didn't give us GPS. For both of these technologies, it would be more accurate to say they work as well as they do because of our understanding of something totally unrelated.. > The conservative viewpoint is that we should invest in things with a high expected return.

Einstein's theory of General Relativity makes GPS possible. Do you realize how many billions of dollars the GPS industry is worth now? They literally gave some German guy like $1000 a hundred years ago and now its a multi billion dollar industry.

The "return on investment" argument is such a bad one. . Why do you think government should be concerned about a payoff? Is government searching for profit? Or do you mean something more abstract when you say "payoff."

If a field of research has a high probability of producing a return, private interests will fund it. The point of government is to fund things where the probability of a return is low, but the variance might be very high. Or where the payoff is low because scientific knowledge really *can't be monetized.*

Nobody could get a patent on basic quantum mechanics, but it turns out to have been incredibly important to 20th century technical advances in many fields. Good thing we didn't demand Planck, Heisenberg, and all the rest grovel at the feet of the GOP to do so.. I mean, I can considering fiscally conservative Republicans in Congress voted to stop a similar bill in Congress 136 to around 230. I also took economics classes so you are not the only one with an understanding of econ. And for the process I was referring to it in the macro scale rather than the micro so your ability to write grants does not automatically grant you the ability to understand it on the macro scale. There are more ways than one to ensure funding is going towards proper channels. This will adversely affect both good and bad. I expect a fiscally conservative person to persue good ROIs. . No its not. I can't inflate the dollar to pay off my credit cards. The government can. Just look at how much technology came out of the space program decades later that was highly profitable.  You are right, companies these days are only interested in minor tweeks, just enough to beat out their competitors.. A decent chunk of defense spending goes toward hard science/engineering innovation. It's unfair to separate the two. 

Correct me if I'm wrong, but doesn't NASA fall under defense spending? . The government has to pay for defense, otherwise we would have private militias. Ironically it is successful, but it's all about building a better mousetrap rather than developing new tech.

If you took away the massive pull towards quarterly performance (ie, raised top marginal tax rates again so there is no windfall for having a strong quarter) then businesses may actually invest in basic science again.

Superconductivity, transistors, light bulb filament - all discovered in private labs.  But only in the right circumstances can this happen, and we sure as shit don't have them.

(Also want to point out that these labs all got huge government grants, so don't get all swollen over the idea that private research can lead basic science). . Basically it was designed by scientists who had absolutely no managerial experience, no financial experience, no experience with large projects, no building experience, no large engineering experience, and so on.

All the big difficult questions they basically just estimated some random low budget figure for, that was completely disconnected from reality.

To give an idea, the initial predicted cost for $4.4billion.  And $2.6 billion of that was supposed to come from other countries.  So the total cost to the US was supposed to be $1.8 billion.

Then after it was approved and started to be built, this increased to $12 billion, and the whole thing was so crazy that **not a single** other country decided to join, except India who promised a token $50 million! So the cost to the US had just gone from $1.8 B to $12 B and almost certainly a lot more than that.

Then the Department Of Energy was tasked to check the budget, and it turns out that the scientists had completely forgotten about the cost of:

* The detectors themselves!
* The half a billion dollars needed for staff operations before the lab was finished
* The cost of actually buying the land
* The entire cost of management itself

And it wasn't just the budget - they just did not feel that some particle physicists had the right experience to lead the largest ever project.  And their review proved that pretty much to be right.  

Here's just one tiny sliver of an example:  Where was the computing power supposed to come from?  The LHC, which is much smaller, already pushes modern computers to their limits. It produces 25 million gigabytes of data per year, and that figure is only "so low" because so much effort and hardware is put into to compressing that figure massively.   We can deal with 25,000,000 GB per year today, but how would you deal with that in 1970?  How are you going to process that data and stream it out to the **hundreds** of universities and institutions that are needed to process it?

The LHC, on the other hand, was the SSC done right.  Built in a place that already had all the infrastructure and the workers, with excellent high speed network connections, reusing existing equipment and tunnels, and built with the joint funds of something 20 different countries.  A truly international project.

And to put it into context, the LHC ended up costing around $5 billion, but when you add in all the other costs (researchers etc) that increases to $13 billion.  $13 billion for a much smaller project with many many things in its favor to reduce the cost, and really pushing the limits of modern technology.   How much do you think the SSC would have cost in total?  Do you think it would have been actually built and functioning today?



. First, there needs to **be** theoretical physics.. There is none, a lot of times the great discoveries in science are from the accidental discoveries of exploration. You can't quantify that in a way that adheres to someone looking at a hard return on investment value. 

When talking about science based budgets in general I like to refer to this:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jcdDb-cbadw. well, it's not like that was her initative. the phase-out has been passed around 2000 by the preceding government. in fact she even postponed some deadlines for the industry and iirc there was also some financial compensation fuckery going on but the pressure grew too strong after fukushima so they ended up rolling that back. Chemistry is just applied physics.. Eh, I take issue with the statement that reactors and weapons are purely an engineering problem now. We certainly know an awful lot about fission, but we still can't quantitatively model things like fission product yields, kinetic energy distributions, fission neutron spectra, and fission barriers. There's still quite a bit of fission research at Los Alamos and Livermore which is partially motivated (or more accurately the funding justified) by improving weapons and reactors. . Consider law school.

IP law (specifically patent if you have the background) can be pretty lucrative.. Don't leave Canada. You have some great universities.

Also, you also have the opportunity to collaborate with US professors/researchers (especially if you're close to the border). I know someone from Brock who is doing this.. What exactly is the further context to "roll back funding for nuclear physics and advanced scientific computing research to 2008 levels"? Are there not fewer jobs now forecasted in sectors such as nuclear fusion and quantum computing? Will not funding be decreased for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers who are trying to conduct novel research in these fields? . [removed]. Yay capitalism!. Autonomous vehicles are in large part being pioneered by private industry.. Not to mention that Lockheed Martin has been managing Sandia National Labs under a government contract for over 2 decades..... I'm not saying finance is great. Hell, I'm choosing to start astrophysics grad school next fall rather than pursue a career in finance. I'm just pointing out that it is still far easier to find employment in finance. You have to get a lot of fortunate breaks to make it into astro academia.. There are exceptions to the rule, I'm not denying that.  NASA, applications of GR to GPS, and everything Maxwell did obviously benefit life today.  That being said, an overwhelming majority of research does not?  Someone below made the point that investing in research is like investing in Venture Capital.  I don't know a ton about how funding is allocated, I studied science in undergrad but now work in finance.  I do know venture capital is an extremely unattractive investment in large quantities, so it's hardly a surprise that Trump wants less of it.  

I don't want anyone here to think I am against science research; I'm not.  I want people to understand that Trump's position is consistent with both his platform and his Party's beliefs.  I also want people to understand that the economic argument for scientific research is a long shot, producing a few amazing payoffs (most of which have been mentioned), and if you can not justify why your research will have a payoff in short-medium term to a president, you should expect less funding.  . Can you name one government that has ever inflated their way out of debt? It's a theory but I think it always ended terribly.. Companies have short lifespans, and innovative startups even more so. A company can't be expected to invest in something they will probably not stay around to enjoy. Basic research is the job of societies.. No, though there is some bleed over; NASA is its own line item in the US budget. . Yeah, [we've got it](https://i.imgur.com/9dAPUmF.png) [covered](https://i.imgur.com/HgPbmI0.png).. Do you think the SSC would have been a viable project if it had been located at the Fermilab complex? The decision to locate in Texas was, as I recall, political and hotly contested by the scientific community.. I ended up not going into the field, but when I was in college I did internships (biomed) in both an academic environment focused on basic science and in research at a biotech company. It wasn't just that there were differences, they were completely different worlds. The biggest contrast I saw was the ability to pursue lines of research just because it seems interesting and relevant to the researcher. It may turn into something, it may not. But, taking the time to write a proposal and justify resources would take longer than just doing it in the first place. It's simply defeating. Not to say academia doesn't have it's bad sides, but it certainly felt a lot more fun and what I'd imagine "doing science" would be like. . Ultimately she caved because the public, who doesn't understand how safe nuclear power is, "convinced" the nuclear physicist, who does know how safe nuclear power is, to close all the nuclear power plants.

I don't know what's worse ... being completely uneducated and ignorant about nuclear energy and opposing it or being an expert in nuclear energy and allowing the public to dictate nuclear energy policy - which they are ignorant about.

It's kind of funny that Germany would rather produce electricity by coal plants rather than nuclear plants and that Germany still imports electricity produced from nuclear plants in neighboring countries.

It's just an odd energy policy.. But the parent comment explicitly said she was a nuclear physicist.  She is not.. [deleted]. I always find it's good to link to an xkcd when referencing one. /u/gotfork might not recognize where that line is from.

https://xkcd.com/435/. well, whether chemistry or physical chemistry; it's still not part of nuclear physics.. [deleted]. It can be very lucrative.  I have family at a firm that specialized in IP law but the company was also viewed as the jerk of IP law.. The problem is that there are way to many lawyers already, getting a job is almost impossible. . 75% of Canadians live within 161 kilometers (100 miles) of the U.S. border.. Sure we have some great universities, but if you want to be (e.g.) leading the design of instrumentation for the next generation of space-based gamma-ray mission you can't really do that from within Canada. 

Source: Am a Canadian postdoc looking for a job. . [removed]. [Here's a relevant article](https://www.jacobinmag.com/2015/03/socialism-innovation-capitalism-smith/) about capitalism, socialism and technology that explains how private industry usually fails to invest in basic research, and how most of the fundamental technology underlying today's high-tech world was created with government funds. . hardly.  they are reliant on radar and satellite technology, both of which are the result of federal investment in research.

also, don't forget that the most fledgling computers were built by federally backed programs.  

https://www.nap.edu/read/6323/chapter/7#138. But are they using technology they're developing or are they putting together various publicly researched things to make it work?

Reading [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_autonomous_cars) I'm seeing a lot of public university and government funded projects in the 80s, 90s and 2000s. When you get to the 2010s it states several manufacturers are testing driverless car systems but it doesn't say if they developed the systems or not.. Because one of the last bastions of labor is in the transportation industry. Think of how much money they can save if they don't have to employ or give benefits to truckers.

Automation is great in utopia. In capitalism, it likely means you get unemployed. We can keep inventing new service jobs out of thin air but the progress of technology arcs towards higher productivity with less labor, so we are going to have to face the music and decide how much we are willing to drive unemployment and poverty up before we bolster our safety nets or consider some other economic system.. Guess who gave Tesla $465M in 2009.  Any "pioneering" is almost always supported in part by taxpayer dollars. If I remember correctly aren't they getting gigantic subsidies? . That's true, finance is easier to get into than astro. >  That being said, an overwhelming majority of research does not? 

That's the problem. You never know when you'll strike gold or when you'll come up empty handed.

The point is, funding science is good on a basic level because it increases our understanding of the world. Sometimes though, you get a gigantic return on investment alongside understanding the world, which makes it not only worth while but incredibly necessary for modern civilization. . I'd like you to consider the very few government funded research projects that have ever produced an economic return for the government. Now imagine that the only government sponsored science ever done in U.S. history had been those few projects. 

I hope this thought experiment makes you reconsider your viewpoint. . Out of curiosity, what do those charts look like when you compare what the spending is as a percentage of the GDP or total government budget?. The main reason is the disposal problem. The last time the German Energy providers were tasked with taking care of their waste disposal, it was a huge disaster and a big scam, that now costs the taxpayer millions to clean up. You just can't trust capitalistic organisations and their managers with taking care of such a delicate problem, which only costs them money. Also including the disposal cost nuclear energy becomes a very expensive source of energy, further making it non viable.
Last but not least a major point of the switch to 100% renewables is that Germany wants to become indepentend from other countries but uranium is almost non existent in Germany. This is especially problimatic if you want to put sanctions on Russia who is a major resource provider. The current situation is a temporary solution on the way to 100% renewables.. > being completely uneducated and ignorant about nuclear energy and opposing it or being an expert in nuclear energy and allowing the public to dictate nuclear energy policy - which they are ignorant about.

The problem is that especially after the days of fukushima, it became very hard to make someone believe that they are fairly safe. Especially in Germany where you do not really have earthquakes, tsunamis and tornados. 

. eh, i agree that the public is quicker to outrage than to inquire, but phasing out nuclear is not the worst path to go.  
actually, the law does not just phase out nuclear and replace it with fossils, these are slowly being 'phased out' too. the flip side of this law is increased funding of renewable energy sources and [they replace the parts that nuclear used to contribute](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c9/Energiemix_Deutschland.svg) (upper 5 ones are renewable, red, black and brown are fossil, purple is nuclear)  
to be fair, all i know about the safety of nuclear reactors i derive from reddit debates and i arrived at the conclusion that modern reactors are safe, old ones are less safe. still there is the question of how to handle the waste.  

edit: a little bonus for the graph with the percentages, annual energy production from black coal went from 143 TWh in 2000 down to 110 TWh in 2016. brown coal stayed around the same (140 in 2000 - 150 in 2016). It's unfortunately that the nuclear plants were closed, but you should not ever think that a leader doing something because the public wills it is a bad thing. The same democratic process that caused the shutdown had also caused many other good things. 

When faced with a public that is collectively wrong, you should seek to educate the people towards the truth. You should **not** seek to undermine the democratic process.

When you submit a paper that you believe is good, and the journal rejected it, you don't bribe them or hack their servers to get your paper published. You try again, you revise your work, you listen to them, you follow the process.. > Ultimately she caved because the public, who doesn't understand how safe nuclear power is, "convinced" the nuclear physicist, who does know how safe nuclear power is, to close all the nuclear power plants.

exactly that. loud minorities uttered their "concerns" about the technology. the decision was purely political in nature, and non-technical.

>It's kind of funny that Germany would rather produce electricity by coal plants rather than nuclear plants and that Germany still imports electricity produced from nuclear plants in neighboring countries.

it is indeed funny, because coal is indeed the go to base load power supply now to account for the fluctuations introduced into the grid by solar and wind. it's really sad, given how this is initially a green position, and a green position results in politics that hurt the environment only because they don't like anything with the word "atom" in it (even if the proper word would be nuclear). it's very depressing for me as a german.. We speak a whole different language. Its called synthesis. And its very important. 

The hypothesis of synthetic chemists is so far removed from physics. It's like calling an optics orientated physicist an applied mathematician.. Chemists figure out how to produce a new wonderful chemical. Engineers are the ones who figure out how to build the infrastructure to make it without dissolving half of Delaware . I am pretty sure i heard that line 100 times from 100 different people while studying physics, i don't think xkcd has invented that one. It is a really common (and old) joke.. I'm a physicist -- they'll take my degree away if I don't recognize the xkcd references.  Edit: wait, this is the physics subreddit -- I guess everyone is.  . There's also a big difference between boutique firms who specialize in IP and large firms with different IP divisions.. It really depends on your niche. Criminal law,  definitely. . [removed]. >Capitalism also hampers the ability of much of the world to contribute to technological advancement. Whole regions of the global economy lack the wealth to support meaningful innovation. Today, only four countries spend over 3 percent of their GDP on research and development; a mere six others devote 2 percent or more.

This is a huge problem that I've always been concerned with. How many Einsteins are we missing out on just because they were unlucky enough to be born in the Congo? There's literally billions of people's worth of potential we're missing out on. . There's an interesting article [here](http://science.sciencemag.org/content/342/6160/817.full) by Bill Press of Numerical Recipes fame. Basically argues that if you spend huge amounts on public R&D now, you risk it getting stolen/applied by other countries. But if no one funds basic research, then no one gets it.. plus things like wi-fi which are all govt funded. What ever nation is able to advance faster will become the leader of the world. . [deleted]. Much more interesting that I expected, actually

http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/MS.MIL.XPND.GD.ZS?end=2015&start=2015&view=bar&year_high_desc=true

The chart at the bottom is sortable.  . No that's been solved too but the public would never allow it. Put it in a giant bullet and drop that sucker in the deepest, yet still stable parts of the ocean. It will get enough momentum to bury itself in the soft, clay-like seabed, which is remarkably resistant to nuclear radiation penetration. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ocean_floor_disposal. You'd be surprised how many people in optics were originally trained in mathematics. But I can see your point.. >How many Einsteins are we missing out on just because they were unlucky enough to be born in the Congo? 

The African Institute for Mathematical Sciences is an ongoing project to find those potential Einsteins and give them a stepping stone to future careers as scientists.. [removed] Understanding the Dzhanibekov Effect through Simulations. nan.  Hi everyone!

Just a few days ago Derek Muller posted [a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1VPfZ_XzisU) on his YouTube channel *Veritasium* explaining the Dzhanibekov effect.

The effect is also known as the *intermediate axis theorem*, and chances are you have seen a GIF of it online. Most notoriously, a t-handle spinning and weirdly rotating in space.

The Dzhanibekov seems very counterintuitive at first, although it is a consequence of very well established physics. So, I decided to test whether or not the effect was replicable with a physics engine. For this, I have used Unity 3D, which is one of the most popular game engines. And indeed, it does work without the need for any additional code!

For the simulation, I simply created three *rigidbodies* connected to a fourth one using *fixed joints*. Adding torque along the intermediate axis, causes the contraption to eventually flip, as predicted by the intermediate axis theorem.

This is such a good example of how, besides memes, game development can be used as a powerful educational tool. I also work as a lecturer in Game Development, Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning: being able to run "virtual experiments" is an incredible resource that should not be ignored.

Another example is how Unity can be used to demonstrate the [formation of crystal defects](https://twitter.com/AlanZucconi/status/862723192326062080?s=20) in materials. That is another topic inspired by a YouTube video by Steve Mould.

I hope this post will spark a constructive discussion on how to use game development for educational purposes.

🧔🏻. https://youtu.be/1VPfZ_XzisU 

I just watched this yesterday, it explains the phenomenon pretty well.. http://gfycat.com/OrnateSolidBilby. haha no kidding! good ole physics man.. If you do away with those pesky UIs and 3D graphics you're basically left with computational physics.. So does it switch based on distance travelled? What are the variables?. This is also easy to replicate in Kerbal Space Program. 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=8aktlvl26z0. You went full Veritasium with this! Outstanding job mate. Hope to see more content like this :). [deleted]. Simulations show a gradual spin/rotation, In real life it's more instantaneous. wew a loxodrome. How is that thing rotating in the air. Felt really smart when earlier I figured it out without the visual explanation. Low iq won’t stop me. I feel Veritasium vibes. You are a Man of culture. Oh, please.  Dzhanibekov "discovered" that effect something like ~~150~~350 years after it was explained.  Goldstein, the standard textbook on classical mechanics throughout most of the 20th Century, has a whole chapter devoted to it.  

Still -- cool simulation.. do a Wilberforce pendulum next!. sorry, I didn't get it, how did you add a perturbation to it so the effect would turn on ?. Re: crystallization - it would be interesting to show how different crystals formed for different metals, especially during quenching and tempering of steel. It was always kind of hard to visualize when I was in engineering school, if you had some kind of high level tool where you could control cooling rates and watch the formation of austenite and martensite, that would be pretty cool.. Try simulating the Polhode motion next, it should be doable with something simple with 3 different dimensions (think something like a book). Gimme some machine learning homework so I can get started. That was fascinating. Thanks for sharing that.. Yeah, I just posted a comment explaining that Derek video's was indeed my source of inspiration for this!

My first attempt was indeed recreating [his contraption](https://twitter.com/AlanZucconi/status/1175107722955677698?s=20).. What's that game again? I wanna play more of it. Very nice!

Besiege is made in Unity as well, so we have both using the same physics engine!. haha i remember when this game was all over reddit. Indeed!

PhysX (the physics engine used by Unity) is known for being a bit ...too simple. But I was pleasantly surprised to see this happening out of the box!. Well, PhysX (the physics engine that Unity uses for 3D) is far from being super accurate. Quite the opposite, I feel is rather whimsical. But I have used it many times to demonstrate phenomenon that would otherwise be very complex to explain with Maths and Physics alone.. > So does it switch based on distance travelled?

Not really.
Basically, each rotation around the intermediate axes amplifies any "wobble" on the axis where the smaller mass rests.

So, over time, any infinitesimal small wobble will cause the contraption to switch. Once it reaches to the other side, the system is reversed and the wobble is reduced. Then the cycle repeats.. It doesn't switch. It is clearer on the simulation that the big boxes always rotate counterclockwise. So, it returns to almost the same axis of rotation.

What happens is similar to how a pendulum swings from almost vertical initial position. It stays almost vertical for some time, then it quickly accelerates, rushes through the downward position, and returns, again, to almost vertical position but on the opposite side of vertical equilibrium.. Nice!
Well, Kerbal Space Program is done in Unity, so it is still using the same physics engine I guess!

I've sent it to Scott Manley, just in case haha!. That was a really weird way to induce rotation.. Have you had a chance to look at [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1VPfZ_XzisU)?

Is possibly the most accessible explanation about it!. Look at the t-handle. It is spinning much, much faster than what you see in the GIF. Also, the masses are distributed differently. PhysX is not very good at handling bodies with angular velocities, so I had to keep it down.

I also cut the initial part of the simulation, before it starts wobbling.. There is no gravity in space. For this simulation I am using PhysX, which is the physics engine that Unity is using. I simply disabled gravity on the rigidbodies.

If you are talking about the [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1n-HMSCDYtM), that is a shot taken on board of the ISS!. Just brute Force a PhD.. Haha indeed!

If you have a look at my first comment on the post, I cited Derek Muller as one of my inspirations for making this!. Are you upset because OP used a common name for the effect? Your attitude seems way out of whack with whatever slight you perceive to have happened.. Thank you for the clarification!

I'd love to have a look at that chapter, if you have a link to it!. > Wilberforce pendulum

IT'S NOW ON MY LIST!. Theoretically any infinitesimal small perturbation is enough to kickstart the process. For the contraption you see in the GIF, I did nothing: floating point errors are enough to make it flip, eventually.

I tried an X-handle, and that was rather stable. In that case, I simply added a tiny amount of torque on the axis where the small masses lie.. Steve Mould recently made [a new video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xuL2yT-B2TM) in which he talks about that!. I got quite a few requests thanks to the visibility of this post!
I'll definitely try to implement them all.. You're welcome!. It's Besiege. You can see this phenomenon in KSP (unity) if I recall correctly. [deleted]. > It doesn't switch.

True.  If you intentionally misinterpret the description of the effect by inserting a vague pronoun and changing its meaning, you can poke holes the original description.

Nobody ever said the angular momentum, as observed in the lab, switches.  That's not even what non-physics people see when they look at the effect happening.  Obviously (to physicists), without external torque, the angular momentum is constant.

The thing that completely switches is the orientation of the object with respect to the angular momentum axis, as observed in the lab.  This is what normal people see.  

The angular velocity vector does do weird things.  Since the moment of inertia is a tensor, the angular momentum isn't necessarily parallel to the angular velocity.  It wanders away from the axis and comes back.  This "it", the angular velocity vector, does what you described.. I see. With any luck u/veritasium will see this post! Thanks for taking the time to make this, this is seriously awesome!!. Not particularly upset.  But it does bemuse me that something generations of physics students have studied for nearly ~~200~~400 years now gets carried with a new common name.  It is rather like calling Keplerian dynamics "Squad dynamics" because Squad's Kerbal Space Program game popularized them in this century.  

For what it's worth, intermediate axis instability has killed at least one spin-stabilized spacecraft ([ATS-5](http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/nmc/spacecraft/display.action?id=1969-069A), launched in 1969).  During the launch sequence, the spin axis happened to be the intermediate axis for part of the deployment on-orbit.  [The spacecraft flipped over and as a result it was unable to deploy its gravity-gradient booms](http://www.astronautix.com/a/ats-5.html).. [Here's one](https://e-b-o-o-k.com/product/classical-mechanics-pdf-download/?gclid=CjwKCAjw2qHsBRAGEiwAMbPoDJcs2sWjk_9W-6CPZKasG5y9bYqDTv4UWQ-QFDozg02AIgvBNGk91RoCoOYQAvD_BwE) though there are many.  The book itself cost me over $100 in the 1990s (with inflation that would be like $180 now), so $20 for a PDF download is a pretty good deal.. I tried...

...it doesn't seem to work.. > floating point errors are enough to make it flip

that was my guess, which is pretty awesome actually. Shows you how actually super small perturbations still have the same effect.. Did you the write program in python? If yes can you share it with me?. Incidentally, KSP is made in Unity, the very same engine I have used for my GIF. So I believe we are both using PhysX to simulate physics.

Also, another used posted [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aktlvl26z0).. What do you mean?. Thanks for the explanation but, honestly, I don't understand with what exactly you're disagreeing. Look up for the Poinsot description of the angular motion (it is in the Landau and Lifshitz book on classical mechanics), and then notice that the motion of the system along the line of intersection of the surfaces of constant energy and constant angular momentum looks exactly like the motion of pendulum, which initially is almost vertical. This, in particular, suggests how to look for an answer to the question about the spatial period of variations, which, I'm sure, is trivial to you.. Thank you for your message!

Before posting the video here, I re-created the [contraption](https://twitter.com/AlanZucconi/status/1175107722955677698?s=20) that Derek showed in his video about the Dzhanibekov effect.

So I think he has definitely seen it! :-). Thank you!. Yeeeah... I was afraid of that. Wilberforce involves momentum loading into the spring transversely. 

Most simulations I’ve seen fake this by keeping separate factors for the spring up/down, vs angular rotation and phase between the two, but this is cheating. 

I think to do it “right”, you need to model the spring as a softbody system, or make it out of a bunch of tiny springs... but this sounds hard. 

It might force a different physics engine.. Floating point errors are basically the equivalent of our quantum fluctuations haha!. I've described quite in detailed how I achieved that in the first comment of the post.

I have used Unity, which is a popular game engine.. No worries.  If you don't want to spring for it, you can explore the wiki tree around the concept of the [polhode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polhode), one of the terms used in the analysis.  Apparently polhode motion (like everything else) dates back to Newton in the 1600s, so the effect has been known for more like 400 years than 150.. It's extremely unlikely to work, then!

Chains of rigidbodies look "fine", but a lot of momentum is "lost" due to floating point errors. Too bad!. Now I'm trying to ~~design~~ imagine an experiment that demonstrates correlation between "our quantum fluctuations" and FP errors in the hypothetical transcendent supercomputer that's running our reality.. Ohk. **Polhode**

The details of a spinning body may impose restrictions on the motion of its angular velocity vector, ω. The curve produced by the angular velocity vector on the inertia ellipsoid, is known as the polhode, coined from Greek meaning "path of the pole". The surface created by the angular velocity vector is termed the body cone.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index) ^| [^Source](https://github.com/kittenswolf/WikiTextBot)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove ^| ^v0.28. yep. 😔. Haha I'm sure there are a lot of theories out there about it! Uranium emitting radiation inside a cloud chamber. nan. Cloud chambers detect the paths taken by ionizing radiation. A cloud chamber is filled with alcohol vapor at a temperature and pressure where any slight changes will cause the vapor to condense. When the radioactive particles zip though this vapor, they upset the molecules in their path, causing the formation of these vapor trails. There are 3 types of radiation being emitted: they are alpha particles (positive nuclei of helium atoms traveling at high speed), beta particles (high-speed, negative electrons), and gamma rays (electromagnetic waves similar to X-rays). 

Full video: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiscokCGOhs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiscokCGOhs). “These bullets won’t stop firing for 50,000 years...”. This is rad!. There was a vertical streak at the beginning. Is it outside? That would be could to see a cosmic ray at the same time. mooooore. Like little bullets firing off.. Coolest thing I've seen today. Thanks internet. [removed]. This would be great as a perfect loop,  zoomed in a little.  I want this as the screensaver for every screen I own.. If they weren't insanely expensive to build and maintain a setup like this, I would love one as a coffee table.. Can people stop quoting Chernobyl? Any time anything related to radiation comes up people just spout out quote after quote and it just clogs up discussion.. Why does it look like it's only coming out sideways, and not from all around?. I'm going to choose my words very carefully so as to not overstate things.

This is the coolest fucking thing I have ever seen in my entire life.. Is this already in slow-motion? If not, I want to see that. Fascinating!. I always think of this when imagining what smell "looks" like.. Is this real time or slowed down. What's so cool about this is how clearly it shows the effects of distance. Put your hand a foot away and you'll just pick up a few zingers. Pick it up with your fingers and you're absorbing 3/4 of what it puts out.. Those little jets flying off is what fucks up your cells internally? is that how ionizing radiation works?. This is set up in Vancouver (science world) no sample of uranium. You would see random and less frequent smaller trails.

They stated it was from solar radiation, muon’s and alpha particles. That’s sooo cool!! This may be a stupid question but how much radiation would each one of those “bullets” represent?. Just watched the Chernobyl series a couple of weeks ago. One of the scientists in the series described radiation as "tiny bullets". This is exactly that it looks like!. Hey that's super cool! You should bring a magnet close to the traces, outside of the box should work just fine.
Charged particles, like beta, will have the path depleted by the field. You will see a nice spin of the particles. This will help you differentiate charged ones (beta)  from neutral (gamma).. This is amazing. best ever. Wow, that is so rad.. What types of trails would one expect to see in an empty cloud chamber on site at Chernobyl?. Great way to show the isotropic assumption holds true. I have questions one of my year mates in college asked: Why does the trails start ~1 cm from the uranium and not from the sample itself?. Why are the vapor trails not forming at the speed of light if that's the speed the particles are traveling?. That's awesome. I remember in highschool doing something similar but using liquid Nitrogen for the vapor source and a lantern mantle for the radiation source.. https://i.imgur.com/Y4YFthE.gif. This is one reason why RPs measure contact and 30cm dpm before were allowed to work on our stuff. Id love to see the distribution length of the emissions. Uraaaanium fever has done and got me down!. This and that photo of the nuclear reactor cooling/isolation/shielding/something bath where it shines bright blue through all the water... terrify me.. Reminds me of this Japanese movie where radiations has been coloured and the characters where running through yellow, green, red clouds to avoid the rads!. Can they do this with gems and other stones that people sell. To see if they have any effects?. I often hear people talking about bananas being sources of radiation.  I'd like to find a video of someone putting a banana in a could chamber. Coolest thing I've ever seen. That is so cool. Cool. OURanium
Soviet anthem intensifies.. Why did I always assume radiation.... radiated out in all directions at once? (Like in a circle but constantly radiating out until it tapered off.). Is this why the radiation was described like bullets in hbo Chernobyl? Sort of look like little bullets going through water. Watching this makes my organs hurt for some reason.. This is by far the single most amazing thing I've ever witnessed in my life. I can see radioactive decay with my own eyes.. Wow. I want one.. Is it real time or slow motion?. Is that really the pattern that radiation is emitted?. How fast are those particles moving?. They should set up a cloud chamber around that waste claw in Chernobyl, or around the Elephants Foot. Would be awesome to visualize the radiation.. It appears that you can see the particles traveling through the chamber. I always thought these particles (espeically gamma rays) traveled at or near the speed of light. Anyone care to explain? Are they really only going <100 mph or some speed easily visible in this small setting?. That's so weird, I thought it would be omnidirectional, like a normal source of light. Are any of these gamma trails?. So is this shot in slow motion?. How can i make one, i cant get dry ice. this seems front page worthy. /r/OddlySatisfying. Probably not a good idea to swallow it😐. He’s here.. [removed]. Hypothetically, could a super speedy superhero “dodge” radiation?

Assuming they weren’t already immune of course.. I had to build one of these for my physics class in community college. Mine was simply the alcohol, dry ice and a flashlight to see the trails. Really cool how a few household items can be used to build something like this.. And can the chamber detect beta and gamma? Or is it just for heavy particles ?. A cloud chamber track detection algorithm I wrote a little while ago:
 https://imgur.com/a/Dh6wCp3
Most tracks get highlighted in white. The idea was to put stuff obstructing the particles and hence do 3D mapping of the density of structured objects.. This is so cool.. So the guy just uses his bare hand to handle the uranium. Was the radiation so low that it was no big deal? If that's the case, how awesome would it be to see something super radioactive in a large cloud chamber?. At 2:37 a particle comes from somewhere outside the experiment.. Glad you posted the full video. This is on my favorites list and I pull it up when I need to chill. I just find it so soothing.. Shiny new electrical apprentice:  Aren't electrons always negative?  We are being taught that electrons are what a negative charge *is*.. Do the particles lose speed as they agitate the alcohol molecules? I’m trying to think of the type of energy transferred to make the clouds form. [deleted]. How he put uranium inside the chamber with his bare hands?. [deleted]. This is cool. I want one as a coffee table. Any idea where I can buy one?. How fast does radiation move away from the object?. Thanks, i understood what the cloud-chamber is supposed to do, i just did not understand the how, thanks for the explanation.. [deleted]. [removed]. Off topic, but does this only work with alcohol vapor? Couldn’t this effect explain contrails?. [deleted]. God damnit all the good Chernobyl meme one liners are already taken. Time to go off script. 

"Every lie we tell incurs a debt to the truth. Sooner or later that debt is paid.". Not great, not terrible. I really don't like that quote and the associated passage. It's incredibly inaccurate because it ignores exponential fall off and makes him sound very alarmist and completely unlike what any nuclear scientist would say.

After only a few hundred years the radiation levels are well enough below background that it's ignorable.

If anything that movie perpetuated the irrational fear of nuclear power. I'm glad they attributed most of the movie to the Soviet mismanagement rather than nuclear power itself, but the visuals did that for them unfortunately.. Settle in boys!  We overtake the enemy in 50,001 years.. “Free energy. CHECKMATE PHYSICISTS.”. [removed]. not [quite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rad_(unit\)), more like [Becquerels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Becquerel).. Comrade, this guy is delusion, get him to an infirmary.. The vertical track is pretty short and thick like the other alpha emissions, it's most likely Radon in the atmosphere undergoing alpha decay. From what I remember, cosmic rays make longer, thinner streaks.. 3 possibilities I can think of for that vertical streak. First is a cosmic ray like you said, second is background decay such Phosphorus or something emitting a high energy beta particle (which the streak looked like to me) and the third option is that it was a neutron activation where the neutron itself is invisible in the chamber when it comes from the Uranium but after it collides with something and activates it that is very visible.

Edit: The container is smaller than I thought it was, we are seeing alpha radiation. That streak is probably a decaying Radon atom from the atmosphere inside the machine.. Based off what i am reading it definitely could be. Or something from ground.. ^3.6. Now imagine them passing through your body, ripping you apart at the molecular level.  You don't feel this, but you develop abnormalities later on.. [removed]. This will have to do.  A 50 minute video at 720p.  This will be cast as I go to sleep tonight.
https://youtu.be/ZiscokCGOhs?t=1m39s. insanely expensive as in [isopropyl alcohol, dry ice, polystyrene and a plastic cup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=400xfGmSlqQ)?. why is it so expensive to maintain?. thought emporium made a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Cu3wW8rNAs) about how to make one of these chambers.. It might be a mostly flat container to reduce the amount of alcohol needed and reduce power requirements.. radiation has a linear path (except in a magnetic field), smell would have a brownian motion (smell will eventually move from one room to the next via a door). Don’t pick up the graphite. Huh?

The trails are clearly coming from the sample.. How frequently would you see something?. Several people keep saying alpha particles from solar radiation, but I just don't see how that is possible. Alpha radiation penetrates a whole 2 cm through air, and won't penetrate the glass on the container (or plastic, or a piece of paper so it doesn't matter what its made of) so how is alpha radiation a possible source?

Cosmic rays and background radiation of beta particles is much more likely.. One alpha particle, basically an ionized Helium nucleus escaping from the nucleus of the decaying atom. They can't penetrate your skin, but if you ingested an alpha emitter it would definitely bang up your sensitive internals once inside you.. Initially they are too fast to start forming bubbles.. That’s not photons that’s alpha and beta particles (i.e. helium - 4 nuclei and neutrons).   

And those move way slower. Basically speed of sound velocities initially but they get even slower.. The particles are moving quite fast, though certainly not at the speed of light. A cosmic ray muon that goes through one of these is relativistic, and certainly very far from the speed of sound in air.

When ionizing radiation goes through a cloud chamber, it ionizes molecules in the gas, which causes condensation along the particle track. You probably can't really see the response time is the condensation along the track because it's too fast, and any drifting of the track is due to the gas just drifting slowly.. Think of an enlarging sphere. You're mostly seeing alpha particles, and they're moving at a few percent of c. The speed at which the track spreads and becomes visible is not the same as the speed of the alpha particle itself, however.. You don't actually see the radiation. Youre seeing small particles of alcohol acting like 'dust' on a cold disk.

The effects of the radiation result in the alcohol vapor being displaced from the forces of the radioactive particles passing by

It's entirely possible, and I am very sure that radiation is going in all directions and you're only seeing the ones that hit the ~2mm high alcohol vapor cloud that forms over the cold metal disk.. No, all of the tracks are caused by charged particles.. You just need a temperature differential.  Dry ice is the easiest way to get one, but not the only one.. I'm told it's the equivalent of a chest x ray. No, but you can handle it without problem. I have one.. You will become Hulk.. true, but only because of the chemical toxicity, much bigger than the radiation exposure risk.. But.....can..can I stick my dick in it?. [removed]. Not really, this is slowmo.  
Maybe flash could with some hollywood bs?. If my kids ever have to do a science fair, I’m definitely helping them with a cloud chamber. They’re crazy cool that you can see invisible particles zipping through space, and not many people would even know how to make one or what exactly it is.. What did you observe in it?  I imagine not Uranium.. Dry ice is a household item?. Does the container need to be any type of special material? And can I build one with nothing in it to see if radiation is coming from a nearby source?. You can even differentiate the alpha and beta rays. Alpha rays will make short but wide cloud trails while beta rays will make those long thin ones.

At least that's what they ~~tought~~ taught me in physics class.. [removed]. Charged particles will leave visible tracks.. Highlight them in red instead, it'll be like a Star Wars battle.. Indeed. The radiation dose would be quite low and hands are actually fairly resistant to the more dangerous forms of radiation damage.

I'd still argue that it isn't the smartest thing to do because of the risk for cross contamination resulting in accidental ingestion which could pose a more serious risk.. I have purchased good size pieces of highly pure uranium online. They can be handled pretty safely. You just wash your hands afterwards. I've got a video of it on my Instagram lighting up my Geiger counter.

https://www.instagram.com/p/Bh9zPhGhQ9h/?igshid=ne9pn0a4gqiu

*Edit - haha forgot to paste the link. Uranium in general is not very radioactive. Even if pure. This looks like an ore sample which means it's even less because most of the rock isn't uranium.

You can buy them on amazon.. you could eat pure uranium; you'd die from the chemical toxicity (U is a heavy metal) before any radiation effect.. Finally somebody is asking the right questions here. What would the "demon core" look like in this thing?. Cosmic rays. It’s pretty bad ass.. That's not necessarily true. It could be a secondary trail coming from a neutron. But it is probably a cosmic Ray.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiscokCGOhs&feature=youtu.be&t=156. There are positively charged electrons (positrons) that are emitted by nuclear decay as well. 'Negatively charged electron' is a very overly specific way of saying what it is, but it works.. Yes, they lose energy as they pass through the medium.. The answer to the first point is probably just tradition. Once terminology is established it is difficult to change it. Additionally, I would say here alpha, beta and gamma describe not only what is being emitted but also the physical process behind the emission. 

Second point is more interesting. 

* Alpha particle is a He nucleus emitted by tunneling through the Coulomb barrier of the parent nucleus. He nucleus is particularly tightly bound - it is a double closed shell nucleus (just like electrons in an atom are found in orbits and shells so are nucleons inside a nucleus - this is due to the spherical symmetry, there are also states that intrude in a lower shell due to the spin-orbit effect). So because it is to strongly bound, you can imagine that inside a very large nucleus a He nucleus forms and keeps hitting the barrier until it finally tunnels through. Probability of tunneling will strongly depend on the energy of the alpha and height of the barrier.
* Beta particles/electrons (there's also an (anti)neutrino there depending on whether it's a beta- or a beta+ decay) are created in a weak process where a neutron decays into a proton plus an electron and an antineutrino (this is for beta-decay which is typically in neutron-rich nuclei - on the other side of the valley of stability you will find proton-rich nuclei where a proton will decay into a neutron + positron + neutrino). Energy of the electron and probability of decay here depend mostly on the difference in energies between the initial state in parent nucleus (typically the ground state) and the final state in the daughter nucleus. 
* Finally, gammas are EM radiation emitted when a nucleus decay deexcites internally emitting the energy difference in the form of a photon. The typical energy scale in nuclear physics is an MeV, the interaction is simply strong. The difference between the states will normally be a few MeV which is gamma territory. UV is electronvolts, so six orders of magnitude smaller - these are the scales you can find in atomic electrons. 

Just to be complete, there are other forms of radiation:

* Fission - nucleus splits into two (assymetric) parts.
* Proton/neutron emission - nucleus spontaneously emits a proton or a neutron, this can happen in extreme nuclei far from stability
* Delayed neutron emission - after e.g. beta-decay, the nucleus is found in a very excited state and releases energy by emitting one, two or more neutrons.

I'm sure there are other exotic modes, but I'd say I got most of the common ones. Hope this helps a little bit.. Because uranium is basically safe to handle. Just don't lick it (even if you did you're probably fine, but heavy metals are reasonably toxic, its like licking lead).. [removed]. You can view this with your bear eyes. Alpha - up to about 5%c (heavy damage but short range, non-penetrating)
Beta - highly variable based on emission power but up to about 44%c (moderately damaging and moderately penetrating)
Gamma - *c* all the time, every time. (low damage, extremely penetrating). The alpha particles are initially moving at a few percent of the speed of light.. It is unenriched uranium, and yes it would look much more aggressive if it were enriched but then there would be some people asking pointed questions.. This man is delusional get him to the infirmary. I’m a new reddit user and was super excited to use a Chernobyl line. Did not expect this many upvotes when I woke up this morning lol. Not Great

Not Terrible. ironic, that show insinuated *many* lies and by it's own logic has one hell of a debt to pay to the truth.. salt numerous office plough soup price crawl special quack tease

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*. He *needed* to be alarmist. That's the whole point. No one really quite understood the immediate and lasting effects of this radiation. Framing the radiation as "bullets" was genius because it makes the situation more conceivable for non-nuclear physicists/engineers. It a) makes the problem seem immediate (a bullet is fired in the present; how many bullets are firing at once?) and b) shows that it is also a lasting problem and cannot simply be pushed to another day.. I mean, even within the context of Soviet mismanagement, the show has a lot of bullshit.. > After only a few hundred years the radiation levels are well enough below background that it's ignorable.

Yeah, only "a few hundred years" no big deal.

Confidence in nuclear power was shattered by the Fukushima incident, not by some tv show showing exactly what happened.

You can tell people that the soviets mismanaged the nuclear plant and didn't have enough funds to kept it safe and they will believe you but what about the Japanese? 

A country and people famous for being competent, well organized and with plenty of money, and yet it blew up, and with it any chance that fission nuclear will be considered a safe power source for many, many years.. It’s from a TV show. [removed]. Radon is primarily an alpha emitter though right? It wouldn't make it through the glass around the chamber. Phosphorus maybe.

Edit: /u/the_Demongod is almost certainly right that it is Radon gas inside the container. Turns out this machine is a lot smaller than I thought it was and that makes a really big difference.. NOT GREAT. NOT TERRIBLE.. So scary, but also equally COOL!. I put on a little Sigur Ros.  Compliments it nicely.
Its the unseen made known.  Man cracks the atom and now the genome.  The lab that first experimented with x- rays were in the dark to the effects it was having to themselves as they were the subjects.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3520298/
Nature is happening all around us.  We just can't see it.. What about the uranium?. If you want a coffee table made out of polystyrene and plastic cups, be my guest.. From what I've read, it needs a constant top-up of isopropyl alcohol. Not super expensive, but still. And electricity to keep the bottom chilled. 

The main cost is in buying it in the first place.. That shit’ll kill ya. Tis a fine cloud chamber, but tis no coffee table.. Yes, it only appears that way because of the container. Radioactive materials like this emit their particles in all directions randomly.. Ah yeah, okay. I think I meant more of the idea of particulate decay coming off whatever is emitting the smell, those particles then suspended in air. But just with the strength of some smells, I imagine the scent 'ejection' to look like this at some level. Here - yes.

But in case you had empty cloud chamber you could see trails of particles coming from space.. Except for one near the end in the bottom left quadrant.. You actually do see two stellar gamma bursts on the left side going parallel (from to back), one right near the beginning and one near the end.. Cosmic rays are interacting with radon in the air and causing alpha particle decay, so the alpha particle dint come from space but the high energy did probably X-ray or gamma ionizing the radon to give up a alpha particle. Not quite, alpha particles are emitted at around 5% of the speed of light while beta particles are much faster (close to the speed of light). Cherenkov radiation (the blue glow) is due to beta particles traveling faster than the speed of light in that medium.. While you can make cold neutrons with velocities close to the speed of sound and energies in the millielectronvolt range, neutrons from a uranium source are megaelectronvolt neutrons and traveling much faster than the speed of sound. Betas and muons would be relativistic. Alphas would be traveling much faster than the speed of sound, too.. Beta particles are elections, not neutrons.

Alpha particles move at 5% of the speed of light. Beta particles vary a lot but can be up to 44% o the speed of light. Speed of sound velocities...no. Just no.

/u/TheMrNashville, tagging you so you see the correction.. That's exactly what I pictured in my mind but this gif shows it shooting off in straight lines. This gif is not what I expected to see.. Why wouldn't the speed that the track becomes visible be the same as the alpha particle speed? I understand it's lateral diffusion would not be related, but its initial appearance should be, right?. Much much less than that.. If yours fits it’s ok by me.....👍. Much better idea than swallowing it.. [removed]. We did one for a science project years ago - another fun source is radioluminescent clock dials or paints, we just used an old number "12" cut out of a radium clock dial face.  Cool to watch the particles coming out of the other side of the dial as well.. Uranium isn't too hard to acquire.. [removed]. You can extract some radioactive shit from some smoke detectors, iirc.. You can buy uranium ore on Amazon. It's marketed as "Super Ice" in my local supermarket, in the booze section.. My local grocery store has a special cooler for it near the checkout lanes.. Considering you can buy it at most grocery stores/supermarkets in America, yeah it can easily be considered one.. [deleted]. That’s how they discovered the muon by identifying a particle in a cloud chamber that had the same charge as an electron but a larger mass. I believe they had applied a magnetic field to see the paths curve allowing them to determine charge of the particle. They also thought it was a different particle predicted as a meson which muons are actually decay products.. [removed]. I take it a neutron would generally leave both a long and wide one?. Missed out on spelling class (taught not tought) going to physics class /jk. [removed]. Indubitably. Quite.. The chemical danger of handling raw uranium is waaayyy higher than the radioactive danger. The biggest concern is heavy metal poisoning, and it should be handled like unpainted lead.. You wash your hands and it's all cool. Unless you're getting uranium dust on your hand, it's likely not dangerous anyway.. How are you gonna say that and then not post a link to it??. [deleted]. You can wash radiation away? Isn't it something that gets into your body?. so I got that going for me. Thank you.

Well, I was going to joke about positrons only being used in star ships, but [apparently](https://www.nextbigfuture.com/2018/05/positron-dynamics-antimatter-propulsion-drive-update-april-2018.html) that would not be funny.  

Don't know enough to tell if the link is from a crackpot, which would make it funny again.

Anyhow, thanks for the search term and bit of study.  I appreciate it.. Thermal energy?. The fear around nuclear power plant waste is generally unfounded because of this. You can dump the entire output of the world's nuclear power plant waste into a few concrete mix plants, voila problem solved. No need to dig a hole in the middle of nowhere with some elaborate scary marking.. Couldn't it be considered licking living lead? Uranium ultimately decays into lead iirc. Question. Why is everyone in this thread constantly talking about the alpha radiation? Nearly all the streaks are going to be beta radiation with the alpha being stopped within a cm of the sample. Right? Yet tons of comments are describing the 'alpha' emissions.. YOU DIDN'T SEE ANY GRAPH- 

*throws up on table*. reddit loves Chernobyl and Chernobyl memes. Especially "Only 3.6 roentgen, not great, not terrible." or anything near that line. 3.6 upvotes. Not great, not terrible.. "blew up" may be a little exaggerated xD
Nuclear plants are still the safest and more environment friendly I would say. The thing that the few times something goes wrong it is spectacular enough to make a big buff. Kinda like airplanes are the safest transportation, yet their accidents have massive tv time.. Am I correct in recalling that 'keeping the cost down' was behind the Japanese Fukushima incident? Higher flood walls would have protected it from the tsunami but were expensive - a mistake made by many other towns along the coast; except one, where an elderly person insisted that higher walls were necessary.. Are you forgetting that a giant tsunami caused it or do you think it 'blew up' out of nowhere?. > You can tell people that the soviets mismanaged the nuclear plant and didn't have enough funds to kept it safe and they will believe you but what about the Japanese?
> 
> 

I can tell you that the Soviets and now Russians are still running many plants of the exact same design that Chernobyl was and are still doing it.. > A country and people famous for being competent, well organized and with plenty of money, and yet it blew up

The plant was horrifically mismanaged. There was [an another plant](https://thebulletin.org/2014/03/onagawa-the-japanese-nuclear-power-plant-that-didnt-melt-down-on-3-11/) closer to the epicenter of the earthquake which took far less damage because their safety measures were adequate.. To be fair... The Fukushima nuclear disaster only happened because there was a freaking earthquake and tsunami.. Did you read their comment? They’re talking about that very TV show.. I know where it's from. It's exactly what I'm talking about.... [removed]. The Radon itself is in the chamber when it decays, the chamber is just filled with regular atmosphere, just saturated with ethanol. http://radioactivethings.com/VeryHighActivityOres.html. so the alcohol doesn't always stay there, it dissipates somehow right?. Slightly enriched uranium is not a big seller.. Yeah, fair enough. I guess you could scale it to coffee table size, but that would most definitely increase the price tag.. I bet somewhere down the line someone will calculate and find a pattern in all this chaos of radiation.. Oh, I thought you meant literally *this* experiment, as in the video.. Ahh cool. I see the now. The puffy vertical traces! Thanks!. You can't ionize a radon into giving off an alpha particle. That isn't a thing. If you think it is I would absolutely love a source on that because it would be completely new to me.. Cherenkov = faster than light particles?. Yeah you are right for some reason I was confusing them with neutrons from a chain reaction or what have you.  

Thanks for the correction.. [removed]. [removed]. [deleted]. Alpha particles from the sun making it through the atmosphere? and after penetrating the atmosphere they make it through the container of your gas chamber? I don't think so.

A few CM of regular air blocks 100% of alpha radiation. Wouldn't that be gamma radiation making tiny little shimmers?. Alpha particles from the sun? Ehhhh don't they travel a few cm in air and where would they be created? I can't recall any reason for the sun to create alpha radiation, but happy to learn something new if that is the case.. Most smoke detectors use alpha particle emitter and detector. Old fiesta ware used uranium paint for its orange color. Also old glow in the dark clocks and watches used radium, I think, for the dials. They won't still glow but are still radio active. Also Lantern mantels for gas camping lanterns are also radio active.. Americium. Is dry ice not readily available overseas?. I can confirm that in the third world most people don't even know there's such a thing. Let alone buy it supermarkets.. I didn't know that, in Germany you have to ask some institution like a university or order it online.. You made me curious so 

https://www.quora.com/Does-radiation-from-a-banana-show-up-noticeably-in-a-cloud-chamber. As the other reply said, neutrons likely won't directly leave a trail. If a neutron does interact it will probably ionize the particle it hits, which will go off in a random direction.

In a cloud chamber that was full of a material with a material with a high neutron cross section you would see lots of beta trails seemingly coming out of no where going in random direction. A single neutron could cause multiple trails, but in the setup here it's extremely unlikely.

In the first few frames you can see a trail starting from no where going straight down. This could be a secondary interaction from a neutron, but is probably a stray cosmic Ray .. A neutron doesn’t leave a visible track, because it has no charge. Rather than ionizing many atoms continuously as it travels, it interacts “catastrophically”, where is suddenly interacts with a single nucleus.. [removed]. Yup. Haha thanks for catching that. Linked.... Im trying to remember what I paid. I think it's like $20/g. In the US you can legally own up to 250kg with out certifications and permits.. You don't wash the radiation away, you wash the still radioactive uranium dust that sticks to your skin and clothes. Even alpha- and beta-radiation can be dangerous if a material that's emitting it is ingested, as it has the potential to do damage to your organs since there's no skin to penetrate and generally less material to go through before it reaches them.. Only if you ingest it or inject it. Sure, gamma can penetrate but it doesn't stay inside you. They're talking about washing any contamination off of the skin so that you won't accidentally rub it on your lunch you're about to eat. That link seems a bit crackpot-ish, but people really are researching positron engines so...

If you want to research types of radiation and the energies, effects, and half-lives of isotopes, tracking a decay chain such as that for U-238 until it ends in a stable isotope is a good way to do it. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decay_chain#Uranium_series. They lose kinetic energy.. Nuclear waste often consists of radioactive material with much shorter half life which is a lot more dangerous.. Nope, Uranium is quite save to handle, but nuclear waste is not Uranium. Or at least the problematic parts are not Uranium and you get nice factors on the order of 10^6 or 10^8 in your activity, depending on how fresh your nuclear waste is.. There's nothing "living" about it, but uranium is also a heavy metal and is also toxic for similar reasons.. The sample is self-shielding, but it’s still emitting alpha particles from its surface.. Disgraceful Really. Reddit loves the first episode. Anything past that's a bit too dense for summer reddit to meme. Blew up is the right term, three separate hydrogen explosions ripped open reactors 1, 2, and 3 at Fukushima. Nuclear power can be incredibly safe, you're right, but it needs to be built in regions where natural disasters are at a minimum. Places where there are frequent earthquakes, such as Japan or California, are catastrophies waiting to happen.. No it literally blew up when they pumped in Sea water to cool it down. It casing of the reactor was made of Zr which at high temperature catalyzed the decomposition of water to h2 o2. Heat fuel o2 pressure boom. The issue is that *when* (not if, accidents will always occur) nuclear accidents happen the potential damage is incredibly high and long-lasting. No other energy source known to us has the same immediate and devastating effect on the enviroment when things really go belly up.

There's also the issue that when speaking of the safety of nuclear power plants, it relies on the assumption that the plant is built, maintained and run by western standards - It's a paper argument that ignores the realities of the practical world, where corruption, cost-cutting and human incompetence/shortsightedness will significantly increases the risks of nuclear accidents, and in the case of poorly constructed plants, the scope of potential damage. (as not to mention management of nuclear waste, but the point should be clear by now)

This is something that however hasn't happened yet mainly due to two reasons, the lesser being nuclear skepticism, and the larger being costs - Nuclear power plants are ridiculously expensive to construct, and when considering the environmental and production value at the same cost compared to other renewable energy resources, the benefits of nuclear are significantly dampened. Should nuclear energy become the preferred alternative to fossile fuels it will end up in a catch-22 - If the construction price is still high, there will be developing countries making short cuts and cut costs to counter act this, and should the price lower, the same scenario occurs, except with even less developed countries capable of the administration, maintenance, and responsibility of running a nuclear power plant up to western standards.

On top of this, this doesn't even consider that even when you have a well-designed and maintained nuclear power plant on western standards, accidents still occur like in Fukushima or Three Mile Island, the former due to natural accidents beyond the scope of human control, the latter due to human fault/incompetence. Considering how relatively few power plants exist in the world and the short time frame where they've been in existence, there's already been quite a few considerable accidents and close calls. In the context of the points made previously, this means that proliferation of nuclear power plants adds more chances for nuclear accidents, and sooner or later you will have at least another accident at least on level 5 on the INES scale, if not higher.

Apologies if it sounds like fear-mongering - There are benefits to nuclear power, and as the technology develops it is becoming both safer and more efficient, but there are still legitimate concerns to be made, and which can be quite frustrating to see swept aside by its proponents by surface-level answers such as "*well, airplanes are in dangerous to be in during an accident, but you don't see people stop flying do you?*". It’s a good thing people would never try to keep costs down in *other* plants, then! /s. It doesn't matter what caused it as far as the public opinion in many countries is concerned it is better to not have a nuclear plant that can explode after an earthquake or other natural disaster.

In this case in particular, it is Japan that we are talking about, they are subjected to earthquakes and tsunami constantly, shouldn't this plant be built to withstand one or in another safer place?

I feel like if you can't guarantee that a normal phenomenon for your country doesn't blow up your Nuclear plant then you shouldn't build it in the first place.. Unfortunately natural disasters happen all the time, and will be more frequent and intense as climate change progresses.  I think it's a reasonable concern.. The conditions under which the chernobyl disaster occurred are easily avoidable and the reactors were still modified to further avoid such a disaster.. Not a great argument, unfortunately - some people foolishly drive without a seat belt every day, too, but that doesn’t mean it’s a good idea.. Hell, Chernobyl itself wasnt shut down until when, 2000?. It doesn't matter what caused it as far as the public opinion in many countries is concerned it is better to not have a nuclear plant that can explode after an earthquake or other natural disaster.

In this case in particular, it is Japan that we are talking about, they are subjected to earthquakes and tsunami constantly, shouldn't this plant be built to withstand one or in another safer place?

I feel like if you can't guarantee that a normal phenomenon for your country doesn't blow up your Nuclear plant then you shouldn't build it in the first place.. It's from a TV show. Did you?. I think because you said movie they're correcting you.. Possible I suppose, I didn't think of it being inside the container. That streak looks really long though, do we know the scale of this thing? How big the sample is across for instance? I suspect that the streak is much longer than 2 cm, which would be the absolute maximum an alpha particle could pull off, even assuming saturated EtOH air isn't much denser than regular air.. $250 :o. From memory when I looked into it, yes. I googled it but can't find the original supplier I was looking at before - technology may have improved and it's not sick a big deal anytime. The professional ones for museums look pretty bulky, not sure how they could be realistically be made into something for the home.. I think you are talking about calculating quantum phenomena. The thing is, you can't.

Our current understanding of the universe says that you can not calculate the location and direction of a particle. You can only calculate one of those, because by doing the observation of the particle, you changed the outcome. That's why we can only predict some occurrences with a certain level of confidence. Never 100%.

This is why Schrödingers cat is a famous thought experiment.. https://www.symmetrymagazine.org/article/january-2015/how-to-build-your-own-particle-detector

>Sorry—not a cosmic ray. When you see short, fat tracks, you’re seeing an **atmospheric radon atom spitting out an alpha particle** (a clump of two protons and two neutrons). Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive element, but it exists in such low concentrations in the air that it is less radioactive than peanut butter. Alpha particles spat out of radon atoms are bulky and low-energy, so they leave short, fat tracks.. No worries. 

Funny thing about neutron radiation, it won't show up in the gas chamber as it doesn't have a charge. Once it collides with something in the chamber then it can show up though, that streak on the left side near the beginning could be a neutron collision event.. [removed]. It's simple. You just need a lot of centrifuges, a lot of input material, and a shit-ton of electricity.. Thank god I am not the only one questioning this. There is so much "Oh the alpha particles" going on in this thread. 

I mean sure, the sun chucks out alpha radiation. And absolutely zero of that makes it to the ground.. I live in America and have no experience living in other countries, therefore I cannot speak for their availability to obtaining dry ice.. No, there is no dry ice to be found anywhere in a supermarket in Europe.. I'd assume welding supply companies would stock it at the very least. Wow I appreciate that article for answering the yes or no question in the first line. Respect to them.. Nice input. My mind went to cosmic ray and no further.. Ah, I thought that neutrons had the potential to interact catastrophically with multiple atomic/molecular systems. Is this wrong?. Oh I see, so what's the difference between this and the fatal kind of radiation like from nuclear energy and CT scans?. >That link seems a bit crackpot-ish

Ya, dug a bit ... there's a NASA grant in there, though.  Some folks at UC Davis, don't know if it's the same team.  Looks like storage is a problem.  Surprised this is even (perhaps-pretend) close to being a real thing.

Thanks again!. True, but those have a range in the gas of what, 1/2 cm? Plus there are all the comments about people making one themselves/seeing it in class and using it to observe 'solar alpha radiation' like that has a chance of making it through the atmosphere.

My question more is, what is the fixation with alpha and completely neglecting the beta?. I wasn't there.. Yes, but as far as I know (am not an expert by any means) those explosions only blew the building up, not the core itself as in Chernobyl . I am not trying to downplay Fukushima's accident, was just pointing out that that "blowing up", given the context, sounded way worse that it was (although you're ofc right, it *was* an explosion). I guess I should have phrased my reply a bit differently. I was just bothered that, imo, seeing "it blew up" right after talking about soviet mismanagement made it look like Fukushima's explosion was comparable with the Chernobyl one.. I 100% agree with the fact that nuclear fission energy poses way more serious dangers than other energy generation techniques. But the real question here should rather be "what are its dangers (how severe, and how likely) compared to its benefits?"

> No other energy source known to us has the same immediate and devastating effect on the environment when things really go belly up.

I agree that nuclear accidents are certainly the most damaging ones. That said, nuclear plants are the cleanest when it comes to greenhouse emissions or other polluting agents. I think that, if one manages to keep severe accidents from happening, nuclear plants are "healthier" for our planet.

> There's also the issue that when speaking of the safety of nuclear power plants, it relies on the assumption that the plant is built, maintained and run by western standards

Totally agree. I think nuclear power should be highly restricted; only competent countries with the highest standards should have access to it. (I know, this is hard to implement irl)

>Nuclear power plants are ridiculously expensive to construct

They are, but they apparently become totally worth building over their operation lifetime. Their construction cost is higher than other plants, but they manage to produce energy cheap enough to overcome this shortcoming. (this is me paraphrasing what I've read from experts, I ain't one)

>there are still legitimate concerns to be made

100% agree. I was not trying to make nuclear energy look totally nice, innocuous and the solution of mankind problems, but I really think it is one of our best ways to fight global warming until our renewable energy sources are better developed or we achieve that holy grail of nuclear fusion.. Fukushima was not beyond the scope of human control nor was it a well-designed plant.  The seismic design basis was inadequate when historic information was available and the backup generators could be inundated and rendered inoperable.. To address some of your concerns:

While it's true that third world countries operating nuclear power is an issue, it's something WAAAY beyond the scope of our control. The argument around nuclear power production isn't about whether we should throw a switch that magically changes global power production to nuclear, you really can't do much outside of your home country so it typically presupposes we're at least referring to only first world countries. Also, there are still attempts being made to prevent third world countries from producing nuclear power regardless of their difficulty due to the risks of weapons proliferation.

Secondly, the myth of a "well-designed and maintained" plant going tits up for no reason like in the supposed case of Fukushima is patently false. Both Three Mile Island and Fukushima had MAJOR errors in design and training that were recorded yet unaddressed as far back as the design stages. I suggest you read on the designs of Fukushima's anti-flood measures and their painfully obvious shortcomings.

And last but most importantly, you seem to be operating on the basis that Murphy's Law is a literal universal constant instead of a rule of thumb. "When not if" is USED for the purpose of safe design practices, to encourage redundancy in components and safety systems and the implementation of shutoffs, not to imply that literally everything is a slippery slope that will eventually lead to catastrophe because it "has to happen." In cases like npps there's no reason to assume every plant will eventually experience a full scale meltdown or even a severe accident, and certainly no case to treat their operation like rolling dice every day.

I agree that there are major, major unaddressed issues with the inspection and design of nuclear power plants around the globe. But it's not the 1950s, we have the technology and the will, all that's required is the legislation. Bruce Nuclear power plant in Canada is a great example of a safely operating, highly productive plant. 

Your post sounds like fear mongering because it _is_ fear mongering. I doubt that was your intention, but if you want to actually help address legitimate concerns with the implementation of nuclear power I highly suggest you look at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an activist/lobbyist group composed of experts from every field under the sun. Their two primary goals are addressing global warming and doing more to safely design, upgrade and secure nuclear plants in the US and a handful of other countries.. https://youtu.be/ciStnd9Y2ak

Please watch this video by a former anti-nuclear activist on why he's changed his mind. It's got tons of well researched evidence against your fears. Even in those cases where the absolutely worst thing possible happened, remarkably few people were affected. Three Mile Island in particular had a spectacular series of things that went wrong and it was completely contained. Fukushima had not a single death due to radiation poisoning.

Nuclear energy has saved more than a Million lives by reducing the very real and scientifically well understood effects of air pollution, which kills millions annually. Germany which has shut off nuclear reactors has seen its fossil fuel consumption and thus air pollution go up drastically because renewables can not replace baseline capacity. People who are worried about the waste should realise that nuclear plants are the only power source where its waste is actually contained instead of going directly into the environment.. I do agree and there was another plant with sea walls twice as high that survived without issue. The Japanese will have learned their lesson.

In terms of reactor safety in general. I agree that there is a problem in that we can't prepare for every outcome. The solution to this is to continue to integrate passive safety features in to the design of new reactors. Another way to minimise the damage of a potential reactor accident is to use small modular reactors which produce 8-20 MW instead of the standard 1200-1600 MW. Not only would these be easier to design more safely, but an incident could be more easily contained while also being less dangerous overall. It would also be easier to build them faster and where they're needed. Rather than being forced to build a single huge reactor which could be cancelled at any time due to politics (driving up the investment risk/construction cost), you can deploy 100, build them as needed and deploy them where they are needed.. If I remember correctly, Fukushima *was* built to be resistant to earthquakes and tsunamis. The issue is that the earthquake was massive (9.0) in addition to some regulations that TEPCO failed to follow, like building a shorter sea wall than recommended. This was the most powerful earthquake recorded in Japan, and the 4th most powerful since 1900.

I'm not absolving TEPCO of any blame, far from it. They should have followed recommendations to build a seawall that could withstand high waves from earthquakes off the coast. But the risk of having high magnitude earthquakes like that is very small (only 3 earthquakes on that area had a magnitude greater than 8.0, from 869, 1896, and 1933). Pretty much, yeah. I was there in 2011 or so, and the new sarcophagus had not yet been put in to place. They were building it next to the reactor and it was one of the biggest man-made objects I have ever seen.. The other 3 reactors still produced a lot of power that the country needed. They were modified to avoid another disaster, running safely and were shut down later on.. Oh, correct, It's basically a made for TV movie though.. I'm not sure exactly, I would imagine the longest streaks are 5 or 6 cm though, are you sure 2cm isn't just the average distance they can travel?. Thanks for the answer, president pussygrab. It's not that you can only calculate one of them, it's that the more accurate you are with one, the less with the other. You can calculate both easily, the values just change each other. Also, you can calculate direction just fine, it's momentum you're thinking of.. While I can see where you're coming from, there have been things we thought impossible to know that have been proven otherwise. Not saying this is one of those but you never know what humans are capable of thousands of years from now (if we ever get that far).. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Technically not alpha radiation, but rather ionized Helium.. Nice username.. That’s not wrong, but even a single interaction is rare, so multiple interactions of the same neutron is even more rare.. [deleted]. In addition to the answer you already got (which isn't 100% correct btw - you can't wash off alpha/beta radiation), I just want to highlight the distinction between and dangers of the radiation itself and the radiation source. The radiation itself is composed of alpha beta and gamma rays, which can be dangerous depending on the rate at which they're emitted, but once they are, the damage is either done or it's not, and that's it. You can't wash your hands to get rid of radiation because there's nothing to wash away. Radiation sources on the other hand are things like uranium, thorium, various natural isotopes of potassium, etc, which emit radiation. If you touch a radiation source and some of it rubs off on you (or especially if you accidentally ingest some), it can be dangerous because as long as it's in/on your body it will constantly be emitting radiation. Washing your hands in this case does help because you're removing the pieces/dust that rubbed off on you, so you won't be exposed to future radiation emissions.. >True, but those have a range in the gas of what, 1/2 cm?

That depends on the pressure of the gas.

>Plus there are all the comments about people making one themselves/seeing it in class and using it to observe 'solar alpha radiation' like that has a chance of making it through the atmosphere.

There are obviously no alpha particles reaching the cloud chamber from the sun, but alpha particles from the uranium source are certainly visible.

>My question more is, what is the fixation with alpha and completely neglecting the beta?

Because the source is primarily emitting alpha particles.. Yeah you're right, it only blew the roofs off the buildings for the reactors. The cores were still exposed to outside air because they had melted through the containment vessels, but it definitely was not as serious as Chernobyl. > But the real question here should rather be "what are its dangers (how severe, and how likely) compared to its benefits?"

Indeed, that's also what I attempt to explain - That while there are definite benefits, there's also further issues that are ignored or dismissed without thought. But overall, to answer that kind of question one has to consider the three major factors - Cost, environmental impact, and efficiency. While nuclear power plants excel at efficiency and produce little carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gasses, there's a significant cost and environmental impact when it comes to construction, as not to mention mining, transportation, and later waste disposal.

If we decide to look at the economics, the cost of a modern powerplant, meaning one with a generation III or III+ reactor is approximately 9 billion dollars (do note that many of these reactors that have been or are still currently under construction have exceeded both deadlines and budgets, particularly in Europe) - A single wind turbine costs between 1 million to 4 million dollars, usually the latter when talking modern 2MW turbines. This means that for the average price of a modern nuclear power plant, you could alternatively purchase 2250 modern wind turbines - For context, according to the US department of energy itself, the average nuclear power plant produces the equivalent energy of just 431 utility scale wind turbines, meaning that for the same price tag of a nuclear power plant, you could have enough wind turbines to produce 6 times the amount of power.

> I agree that nuclear accidents are certainly the most damaging ones. That said, nuclear plants are the cleanest when it comes to greenhouse emissions or other polluting agents. I think that, if one manages to keep severe accidents from happening, nuclear plants are "healthier" for our planet.

Well, it's sadly not that simple - As mentioned previously, this doesn't account for the environmental footprint left by mining, extraction, processing, or transportation. For reference, nuclear physicist and proponent Manfred Lenzen calculated that life-cycle emissions for nuclear energy, based on mining high-grade uranium ore, equaled approximately 60 grams of CO2 per kWh - For wind, this was 10–20 g/kWh, though both naturally far out-competed natural gas at a staggering 500–600 g/kWh.

To add to this, high grade uranium ore is a finite resource, with reserves expected to deplete less than 100 years from now, and with the NEA (Nuclear Energy Agency) expecting economically viable resources to deplete in slightly over 200 years. This includes low-grade uranium which has a even higher output of CO2 at 130 g/kWh.

On top of this, there's also the problem of waste - So far, there's only **one** operating permanent repository in the entire world dealing with high-level nuclear waste at Onkalo in Finland, with another still under construction in Sweden at Söderviken. The current method of storing high-level nuclear waste is still temporary pools or dry-casks. There are still considerable economic issues and technical challenges in this field, and so far no good answer to the social issue of maintaining these facilities for the next 100,000 years and further.

> Totally agree. I think nuclear power should be highly restricted; only competent countries with the highest standards should have access to it. (I know, this is hard to implement irl)

I agree, but as you mention yourself, this is very difficult to implement. I mean, if the worlds most isolated state can produce nuclear weapons despite overwhelming restrictions imposed by the rest of the world, it's not outside the imagination that developing nations under less international scrutiny could acquire the technology, given it's economically viable.

> I really think it is one of our best ways to fight global warming until our renewable energy sources are better developed or we achieve that holy grail of nuclear fusion

I disagree on that sentiment - For one thing, there aren't enough power plants in the world to tip that scale, and building enough will be insanely costly, as not to mention it will deplete the finite uranium resources faster. On top of this, renewable energy sources are so far developing faster than nuclear energy, becoming more efficient and cheaper, where as the majority of running reactors in the world are still the obsolete generation II, with the replacement generation III and III+ being quite few in numbers, of which many are still under construction, and generation IV is still at the design table.

As for fusion energy, it is very promising, but the issues of energy consumption and climate change are happening already as we speak, and the technology is still outside our grasp and will be so for a considerable amount of time, so it's not realistic or practical to put our faith into it, at least for now.. Limited series.  I’ve never seen a movie that’s 5 hours long lulz. Hm, looks like 2cm is a decent average and 3.7cm of air is a 100% shield distance. (also a single piece of printer paper, per harvard https://sciencedemonstrations.fas.harvard.edu/presentations/%CE%B1-%CE%B2-%CE%B3-penetration-and-shielding) 

I am not very familiar with these gas visualizers but I suspect that all of the longer streaks we are seeing are beta radiation while the alphas are responsible for shorter streaks, but I just don't know enough about it. I say INFO: Not enough information to conclude and could OP add a ruler? 

On the other hand maybe the gas only detects the higher energy of the alpha particles and we aren't seeing the beta particles at all. Without scale it's hard to say.. Yeah, I know about the double slit etc. I just simplified it a lot to make it sort of bite sized.. Well it actually goes deeper than just "measuring changes the measurement." If that were the case, than sure, one day we probably could know both the position and momentum of a particle as our measuring devices got more advanced. Unfortunately it's actually an inherent property of waves themselves. Quantum particles are probability waves. And the better you know the frequency of a wave, the less you know about the exact position of that wave. The better you know the exact position of a wave, the more undefined the frequency of that wave is.

 Think of a sound wave. When someone hits a snare drum, you can very precisely say the sound happened at .01 seconds and only .01 seconds. But its hard to determine if that sound was a C, or a G, or a D, etc. If you want a precisely defined C, the note has to ring out for some amount of time to be heard as a C and not just a percussive hit. Now play a C on your piano and let it ring out for several seconds and it's very easily defined as a C, but it's hard to pin point its position.

See https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourier_transform for more info.. [removed]. Huh. I suppose that is accurate. Looks like solar wind is waaaaay slower than an alpha emission.. salt quaint tease long engine numerous saw square elderly plough

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*. Very informative thanks!. Isn't Uranium also just generally toxic?  I thought the big danger with Uranium wasn't necessarily the ionizing radiation, but the chemical toxicity if you ingest or inhale the dust.  The radiation internally is still meh, but Uranium is a heavy metal.  Enough any such a material would just shut your kidneys down.  I'm pretty certain that's why you want to wash your hands after handling it.  Someone else may be able to correct me on this since I'm not an expert in the area (and I'm trying to phrase my response that way).. Several people said you wash contaminants off the skin, i.e. radioactive dust/particles, not the radiation itself, so you essentially just reiterated what they said in a more long winded manner, whilst calling them wrong.. Fair enough. The detector also turns out to be much smaller than I thought, meaning that yeah all the streaks are alpha. I got some bad info from another comment that made me think all the streaks were much too long to be alpha radiation.. LotR is the example that comes to mind. 11.5 hours if you combine all 3 parts.. Like basically everything on Reddit, this isn't OC. The original video is [here](https://youtu.be/ZiscokCGOhs).. That's very interesting mate, appreciate the info.. [removed]. that was such an epic explanation of that thank you. offer reach obtainable toy roof like illegal divide future fertile

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*. You are correct. The radiation concern is minimal. The risk of heavy metal poisoning is real, and it should be treated like lead. With the main precaution being to wash ones hands after handling.. >Radiation is made up of alpha and beta particles which don’t transfer through substances very easily and thus can be washed off, and gamma rays which go through almost everything and can shatter dna.

https://old.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/cm6hkf/uranium_emitting_radiation_inside_a_cloud_chamber/ew0qnl7/

That's what he's referring to. Parsing that on the surface, it can sound like radiation is something that can stick to you and needs to be washed off. He was trying to clarify that radiation causes damage instantly and cannot be washed off, but the radioactive substance can stick to you, which is why its important to wash your hands after handling radioactive substances.. But not 5. Oh sweet. Yeah we are mostly seeing alpha with maybe a few high energy beta. That is way smaller than I thought it was and that changes things greatly.. Though I myself haven't it, I have been in handling rooms around it. Purified plutonium is largely just handled with latex gloves.. Yes, that is what I was trying to say. I think when I posted, the post you quoted was the only response at the time; some other people must have came in after and posted the correct information. Use the mathpix Snipping Tool for Linux to convert screenshots of equations into LaTeX instantly. mathpix.com. nan. [deleted]. Wow. This would have been super useful to me ten years ago lol. It does pretty decent OCR of handwriting too!! Holy crap, we could soon write latex math by taking pics of our handwriting!! (Check the mobile app). While we're at it, big shout out to [Table Generator](http://www.tablesgenerator.com). Saved me tons of time during my lab reports.. How the shit has this not been gilded yet

Edit: ugh ok mom. That is really impressive.. Awesome. I gotta start looking into some Linux distros again.... [deleted]. seriously amazing!. Where are you 6 months ago??. WHERE WERE YOU A YEAR AGO?. Currently writing my phd thesis... DAMN !

Thank you.. Pardon my weebness, but this is too subarashi. [removed]. Oh hell yeah!. The tool that was promised! Now someone make it opensource so I can sleep in peace.. So happy rn. W A N T .. This is beautiful. Just incredible. Thank you so, so much.. Good lord that's an awesome bit of programming.. It won't launch on my computer :/ . fuck. I’m...I’m...speechless . I dont know who you are, but you just made my life a whole lot better. Thank jou!!!. Is there something like this for windows? . Thanks m8. THANK . Let me know when it can do Feynman diagrams. . This is a great app. I wish I could paste directly into PowerPoint equations.. Cool, do they have anything for the 97% of computer users who don’t use Linux? . So this is just an ad?. Wow. if only I had this when writing thesis. . Holy shit! This actually works. . thats hot. Hello future my new friend!. Detexify has been around for years and is also amazing, it lets you draw symbols in the browser and get the LaTeX command for it: http://detexify.kirelabs.org/classify.html

For anyone who cares is written in Haskell. . [deleted]. Thank you !!. Fucking. Amazing.. What's with that x under the radical? That's not how Gaussians work!. Wow. This will save hours of time. Thank you!. Is it also trained on 1980's revtex?. Coming from r/all I’m a monkey . Good. Its still missing the kitchen sink!   ;). Oh my Gosh this is amazing. The Beta doesn't really work for Win10.. Dear lord. Im never going to use this because im not a physics guy at all, but i can still tell how amazing this thing is going to be. Omfg, this is great for machine learning algorithms. Can we use it for Shinichi Mochizuki's Inter-universal Teichmuller Theory to see if it's correct?. .. LaTeXiT will do the opposite: turn Tex into equations you can drag-and-drop into documents, but I use it when making figure annotations.. LaTeX

They couldn’t find a better name? 🤣. If you can find out who the hell they are, then go ahead.

But that's the thing...

Before you go loading some closed-source software onto your PC that uses a remote server and is only free for the first 1000 API-calls per month...

You might ask why their website does not have a trace of identifying information.. Stand in line . Over the last six months I made an entire Anki flashcard deck of 200+ math formulas using LaTeX coding for an exam I took this morning. Wonderful timing this post.. I was going to ask as a joke (not because it wouldn't be amazingly useful, but because i didn't believe it could work).. >After we turn in our work he accuses me of cheating because another students name was in the metadata for some a cadd drawing.  He calls me.to.his office and tries to have me sign a paper saying I cheating.  Told him I I as s not signing that billshit and walked, straight the the academic dean and told him how the new professor stole my work and have it to the entire class.  Some action was taken against him (although I dont know what) and he apologised to me in front of the class.

We're going to be making some huge improvements on handwriting recognition soon! It's OK but definitely not nearly as reliable as printed math as of today.. God fucking dammit where was this 10 years ago when I was making complicated ass tables for my Optics lab. Gah! . For some reason, markdown links on reddit need to have the protocol (the http:// part) in the web address. If you include that, the link should render correctly, like so: [Tables Generator](http://www.tablesgenerator.com/). Thanks for mentioning it! I heartily recommend this too. Awesome.. Because you're too cheap. Because Reddit is in a terrible state, overrun by terrible people, administrated by terrible people, who should not be financially supported but opposed.

But this definitely deserves more appreciation.. There is a windows version of this as well. But if you are still interested in linux, I recommend mint or ubuntu to start.. I've found arch Linux to be the most friendly to beginners . Probably around a 7. Very time consuming, in some ways you wouldn't expect.. Our new app version had a bug, just fixed it: [https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi](https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi). Are you trying wsl? Or? . It is actually available for Windows and Mac too! Just downloaded it and tried it :). Keynote supports Latex now, but not sure about PowerPoint.  If you use MacOS you can use the "Copy png" button.  We don't have that yet for other platforms.. yes we have a version for mac and windows.  r/https://mathpix.com. This one is different.  It's extremely reliable on math in PDF's.  . Good catch.. I know we messed up with a new version... we fixed it though and it's here: [https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi](https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi). Yeah, it was a huge letdown to discover this is not open source...
As if only providing Ubuntu snaps wasn't bad enough. . You're right we don't have much info about ourselves, we're missing an /about page. We're an OCR company providing an API for developers that is the best API in the world for converting images into text & latex. The company started as a side project at Stanford.  We built this app because we spent a lot of time in our PhDs typing up Latex and I felt like we could build a great product here. The app is completely free for now and will at the very least forever to continue to be free for everyone expect possibly heavy users (some people use it VERY HEAVILY). Right now we're just trying to build something great and figure out how to build a great business from it without pissing people off. I hope you check us out. We also have a very exciting new product coming out that builds on top of this stuff, so watch out!. [deleted]. Surely typing out all of the formulae by hand will help you remember them better. me, too - the exam was yesterday though.... [deleted]. If you select text then hit reply, reddit formats it as quoted text.

FYI: The text you've quoted is from an unrelated comment further up the page.. That's how I feel about the snipping tool. Luckily I found this gem after 2 labs inputting my tables by hand. . Thanks! I was on mobile, so it's kinda hit or miss.. :(. Lol that this is being downvoted. The reddit admins knowingly let a pedophile network operate until advertisers eventually complained after Anderson Cooper called them out on it. 

Obviously the admins are different from the moderators of this subreddit,  who are nothing but lovely.. Enjoy your downvotes dumbfuck. Leave then, ad revenue supports them. What's the name of the windows version? . Lol. If you're ready to learn a lot, yeah, you'll learn how everything works. Not sure about it being a first experience . As someone who unknowingly took a stab at writing a simple latex parser... oh yeah, I can image.  I was only looking at mathematical formulas and still found a staggering amount of latex sequences.. Thanks. Managed to install it, but now just pressing "M" activates MathPix, which is pretty inconvinient. How to fix?. Thanks for giving it a shot! Btw if you tried a buggy version we fixed it: [https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi](https://mathpix.com/smi/MathpixSnippingTool-0.1.8.0.msi). Great, thanks!. Hey, thanks for the quick reply. This tool works out great.. Yep. It's quite understandable that some mathematically-inclined guy would want to set up a nice little earner without having to deal with the public. On the other hand...

If you were one of those criminal outfits behind ransomware, you couldn't do worse than searching for some open-source software that would be very useful if only somebody had got around to packaging it properly for distribution. Oh, how about this...

https://github.com/falvaro/seshat. Many PhD programs have a written exam near the beginning that basically covers all of undergrad level physics and all the content from the intro grad classes. This exam took place over two full days (3 hours for each of 4 sections if I recall correctly). To solve the problems on this exam it is often necessary to have memorized some equation (say the spherical harmonics). I made my deck of equation flash cards by hand though :(. Sorry, for the late reply, made that post and promptly fell asleep. I'm an Actuarial student pursuing my certifications through the Society of Actuaries. We have a series of 3 to 5 hour long exams filled with graduate level mathematics and statistics.. Upvote for formulae. I admire you for your bravery and consistency. You’ll go far in life. Keep up the good work. The D will get what he deserves. good point! . Things aren't just guilded because they're good. Someone has to do it!. If I recall correctly it is the same program. Check the link: https://mathpix.com. oh man that's annoying... you might try right clicking on the app icon to switch the shortcut.  but you might have to wait for our new app version to be fixed, should be out within a day or two. . Thanks, but I actually use the Mac version :). We love open source software at Mathpix, but not everything is a good fit for open source.  Open source does really well with programs with a small surface area of interaction.  Not so good for complex web apps and Desktops (eg. Adobe Photoshop, ...).  . My uni had that as part of the final year undergraduate exams - a 20 question examine on that would have topics from every physics discipline (experimental, thoery, maths, nano-science and astronomy). It was part of a no sleep week which contained 4, 3hr exam days in a row... I drank liters of coffee.. what, are you talking quals?. I tried it again and managed to pinpoint the bug: if I use any other ctrl+alt shortcut, e.g. ctrl+alt+2 two create the @ sign, MathPix remembers the ctrl+alt I already pressed and then registers the next M keypress as ctrl+alt+M and launches the selection tool.. ok nice! the Mac version is really sweet.  Got to give those guys at Apple some credit, they make it easier than anyone else to build great apps.. Yeah or GIMP or LibreOffice or GitLab or...Ubuntu?  OpenShift, OpenStack, Jenkins, Kubernetes?

Very cool product but saying that large products and complex web apps don't do well on open source is kinda meh.. >  Open source does really well with programs with a small surface area of interaction. Not so good for complex web apps and Desktops (eg. Adobe Photoshop, ...). 

This is rubbish, just be honest and say you're trying to make more money by keeping it closed.

> For us to open source [...] we would need to publicly release the datasets our algorithms train on.

I don't think this is true either. I understand wanting to keep your own property (or 'your own' property) but this is just a false statement.. >Not so good for complex web apps and Desktops (eg. Adobe Photoshop, ...).

Visual Studio Code? I say that because it comes from Microsoft who would be the least likely to until recently, now most of the stuff that matters with .NET and C#c is open source.. The only thing preventing something like photoshop from being open source is money. That's it. This whole "surface area of interaction" thing is nonsense. It's your prerogative to not open source it, but don't say that the open source model is the problem here because it's not. There are many successful open source projects that are larger and more complex than yours.. Ah, the general paper. I remember my housemates tearing their hair out over that one. Thank god I did materials. . For us the qualifying exam was oral was much more relevant to the actual work/subfield of study. I felt good about studying for that one because I knew I would actually use the gained knowledge.. Kubernetes is not a web app.  Open source is great for dev ops, but most people would agree Photoshop > GIMP, and Microsoft Word > Libre office, Github > Gitlab.  For us to open source would require a massive breach of privacy as we would need to publicly release the datasets our algorithms train on.. We're optimizing this product for users, not for developers.  

We have an open API for developers here: https://mathpix.com/api.html

And you'll just need to take our word that AI products that use images submitted by users to improve product quality cannot conveniently be open sourced due to privacy reasons.. which part is false?

&#x200B;. i've looked at some past quals, they are pretty hardcore. some really cool questions, most of which are absolutely beyond my level, but cool nonetheless. what's the oral section like?. Ubuntu also is not a webapp, neither is OpenStack, etc.  The main point was that saying that you're not OSS because it isn't a "good fit" is disingenuous, and this post

>  For us to open source would require a massive breach of privacy as we would need to publicly release the datasets our algorithms train on.

Is what you should have said in the first place.

I think that the product you've made is *really* cool, but especially when you're closed source you should try to be as up front as possible.. You could just leave out the datasets you used to train the algorithms, and let the community create datasets like Mozilla are doing with their open voice project.

Also, Photoshop, Microsoft Word and Github have tremendous amounts of money behind them, whereas their open source equivalents are community funded.

Why don't you compare something more even, like Red Hat Enterprise Linux with Microsoft Server?. GitLab > Github but I get the sentiment. . The model that you've trained can be publicly available without the dataset(s) it's trained on. They are quite distinct from one another.. An application like this is likely not so complex that it could not be open source. But I do understand wanting to own one's proprietary creation (if you made it yourself, that is, and not utilized other open source resources).. A shitfest that makes you cry, in my experience.. Dont worry they are not beyond your level especially if your reaction to seeing the problems is that they are cool :). It just takes a lot of preparation (or maybe not so much if you are naturally more talented than me). My oral exam was designed as a 30-45 minute talk with PowerPoint slides. The introduction was a more in-depth than a seminar or colloquium. This talk was given to a committee of 5 professors with relevant backgrounds. And they asked questions throughout and after the talk, the hardest of which were about the foundation of my subfield and the easiest of which were about the actual work I had already done and proposed to do during the remainder of my PhD. The questions Drew the talk out to about 1:30 mins in my case which was relatively short compared to some of my fellow grad students at the time. . Good point.  We'll add this to an FAQ I think.. Why do you say that?. Also the statement that complexity hinders open source is silly, see: Linux kernel, with millions of LoC and hundreds or thousands of contributors.. It _looks_ simple but it's actually very complex when you see everything involved.. sounds fun. https://thenakeddarwin.files.wordpress.com/2014/11/phd0111.gif

this comes to mind.. Exactly. The notion that their app is more complex than the Linux kernel is laughable at best.. Your app is not too complex for open source. In fact, aside from your trained model, I'd wager there's very little complexity in the actual app.. I'm not dissing you or the complexity of your program. I am just saying that implying that the complexity of your program necessitates a closed source program is patently false.. Well nothing "necessitates" open or closed source, there are tradeoffs involved in everything.  For us to spend time making our already free app open source would not really make anyone else's life better.. Yes, I did say that I understood wanting to own one's proprietary creation. Video series on fluid simulation - all self-coded. nan. Hey there,  
  
The next part of my video series on fluid simulation is available.   
  
[Link to video](https://youtu.be/sSJmUmCHAJY)

  
Topic covered: rarefied gas dynamics, continuum gas dynamics, fluid motion descriptions & coordinates (spatially fixed (Eulerian), material-fixed (Lagrangian), arbitrary), reducibility aspects, motivation on modeling unresolved flow structures, ensemble averages of microscopically and macroscopically varying data, usefulness of the modeling hierarchy, simplifying and decoupling the evolution equations, Navier-Stokes equations, compressible flow and the incompressible flow assumptions, and buoyancy-driven flow (Boussinesq approximation).  
  
I hope you like it!   
  
Have fun!. Looks really dope. Is the code open source?. Blackhole aerofoil bending space is tight!. Imagine doing this for simpler interactions and for educational purposes. Kids *need* to *see* visualizations. More importantly, we *want* to see visualizations.. Are you exaggerating the turbulence on top for effect?  It doesn't look like the AOA is high enough for that much turbulence... at least not according to this video
 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6UlsArvbTeo. Imminent stall. Pretty awesome that you coded that yourself, and looks cool.  But I'm not sure if it is accurate.  If you watch a plane fly through a cloud you will see a significant down draft in the wake of the plane.  The wings throw air down, but in your video it seems like the air behind the wing is getting sucked upward.. Its all fun and games in fluid dynamics (beautiful theory, incredible simulation and modeling capabilities, etc.) until you actually want to do anything useful with it and you realize that no simulation is at all to be trusted unless you tune it over and over to match the experimental setup. Unlike most of the other fields in engineering, simulations in fluid dynamics are completely useless on their own, other than looking pretty.

This is one of the reasons why I decided to do my graduate school in robotics after having done my undergrad specialization in fluid dynamics. I started loving it and left it truly hating it. Dirty, highly empirical and not as glamurous at it seems.. Post your code on GitHub, homie. That was awesome. Where were you when I was doing my degree? These visualisations would have been amazing to have!. Awesome. What aerofoil and chord length did you use and at what speed? I want to see if I can recreate this in my CFD software.. What's your Reynolds number here? It's surprising to see this stalled this thoroughly, but I'll admit it's difficult to judge angle of attack visually.. man i knew being a lurker on this sub would bite me in the ass.

wtf am i looking at ?. How are you creating the visualizations?. Looks good. Is the flow completely invicid allowing you to ignore viscosity?. I've watched your previous videos and they're both beautiful and informative. Thanks 👍. Nerd. Cool video, Im curious to know how that looks in 3D. That is a great example of fluid physics, sorry saying it like that seems weird I was always partial to quantum physics and things like dark matter or particles. Anyway, really impressed the coding was great.. Hey! This is pretty neat. Fucking great. Finally the wait is over! Thank you so much!. What equations are you solving here?. All the animations on the video are excellent.. u/Space_Struck. When flying thru glue. Brilliant! Thank you for sharing 👍😊❤️. I’m on shrooms and crying. It’s so beautiful.. Von Kareem (sp?) vortices !. Pretty awesome. What language did you write it in?. The damage warp drives do to the fabric of space.. This would be a stall lol. Very awesome work dude!. Space-time is curved. That's one hell of a non laminar aerofoil.. Finite Volume?. amazing work!!. Finite Volume?. I saw the original video of this! Incredibly mind blowing stuff!! My first thought was that spacetime must be a fluid, I guess probably a superfluid.. Well done!. Cool. Can I ask what is your background/occupation?. Hey, looks great! What'd you use to render the video?. Long wait is finally over. Thank you so much.. Oh I was waiting on your next video, the series has been amazing so far :-). Wow wow wow. Wow.. It literally bent the light .. Heck, I have a physics degree and I NEED to see visualizations haha. The simulated fluid is likely denser than air or with a smaller viscosity. Flow separation is more dependent upon the velocity, viscosity of fluid, density of the fluid than pure AoA of a foil etc ... If a fluid has a high inertial force relative to the viscous force you get turbulence. This is why Reynolds number is so useful in fluid dynamics and engineering.

Edit: link to Reynolds number for those interested. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reynolds_number. Depending on Reynolds number and aerofoil thickness you can even get the same kind of roll up vortices with a symmetric aerofoil at 0AoA.. Haha I know, glad that someone else automatically hears the warning horn go off as soon as there's separation on that upper boundary 😅. Interesting and respectful question. I’m curious too.. Just enjoy the animation. Don't criticize unless you have a thorough understanding of the topic at hand. Totally agree, I remember the first time I asked "Yeah but what *is* the coefficient of lift" - thinking it was either a constant or something that could be mathematically derived, e.g. per calculus. Imagine my confusion and disappointment to see it was basically "well, we put all this stuff in a wind tunnel...". Yep. You must always do a verification.. "Edge on" view of an airplane wing, or possibly just an airfoil profile. It shows flow separation on the top surface indicating that it is going to stall.. More like u/Not so noteworthy scholar. Navier-Stokes. I work with CFD regularly. All I can really interpret is the pretty pictures. Red is bad.. It is called physical intuition. well sort of but no, potential flow theory is generally quite good at predicting cl without separation bubbles. I've also been reading some developments in using Lagrangian mechanics to predict lift from potential flows (rather than imposing a Kutta condition).

Moreover all physics comes from some experimental data, speed of light for example, gravitational acceleration, etc.. And it's not.! Fukign working thst thing out for my drag calc when doing a theoretical aircraft in mod 1 of cranfields course nearly clilld me till I realised it changes!. 2d cross section of a wing aka aerofoil flowing through a fluid showing separation and turbulance. If my opinion on this video was so bad about it being a good example then please send me the correct math, physics, animation, and response about how it should have been instead. Go ahead and wow me with your grand equation on fluid physics that says this isn't a good video. Not even saying this in a spiteful way.. The guy above is applying his layperson intuition of 3d wing aerodynamics to a 2d airfoil case. That is why you're both clueless. Like I said, better to ask than to criticize.. >Moreover all physics comes from some experimental data, speed of light for example, gravitational acceleration, etc.

Yeah that was my point precisely about hoping it was a *constant* - for example we establish that *c* or pi is an irreducible primitive, given to us in those first few moments of the big bang. Observation is involved, but once that observation is done, we establish the constant and forget about it. *cl* on the other hand is deeply arbitrary. It has to do with our choice of airfoil shape (which is itself an arbitrary construct), what happens on planet Earth specifically, and various other discretionary engineering choices only available via observation. It lacks the "cleanliness" of other Newtonian calcs - and from that perspective I agree with the lament of the thread starter. For this reason, when it shows up in a physics equation, I see it more like stats and less like physics.. I said physical intuition. It is possible that physical intuition is wrong, in which case it should be explained why it is against what you would expect.. Yeah. Same thing with all the coefficients of heat exchange when you’re doing (advanced) Thermodynamics with complex shapes and turbulent convection. You don’t derive your theory from first principles… but rather go and say: for _this_ shape and _this_ pressure and _this_ orientation and _this_ material, the coefficient is xxx, period. We wrote Schrödingers Equation! It ain‘t much but at least it‘s honest work. nan. It's okay everybody, /r/place is short lived and it's fun to be silly and off topic once in a while.. God damn it! We should at least have the Standard Model lagrangian there.. Time independent, ha? Slackers!. We need more people!

Bigger our territory is, more fun stuff we can paint!. (588, 1093). damn, it's so small it's almost *quantum.*. [deleted]. what does hiyeiy mean. Greetings from Noita, your new neighbor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0cDkmQ0F0Jw. Too bad it's probably going to be covered up by an among us cock. Hey fellow Mathmagicans!  


I come from the r/Noita fellas to ask you guys to let us have our "N" in its full glory.  
[https://imgur.com/a/EY2MMJR](https://imgur.com/a/EY2MMJR)  
We noticed the Color Change and would adopt that into our template but ask you guys to not delete the underlying "N"  


BTW: Did you know we are huge physics fans ourselves? Yes! So much so that our community is from a game where every Pixel has its own physics calculations. Stuff like gravity n such. Pretty magical if i may say so. Might wanna check it out its truely a BLAST!   


Keep bringing humanity closer to the edge of magic by means of physic!. For those interested in joining our Project make sure to check out r/PhysicsPlace and our discord server https://discord.gg/rTfR54zvU4. Doing gods work. I wanna check, but I’m not sure if it is still there or not. Einstein field equations anyone?. Hi everyone, have we created an equation back in 2017 image? Or anything physics related?. Niceeee. it's energy conservation, so it's technically no work. LET'S GO!!!. It’s a good one to go with. Simple, but so important. Nice. [deleted]. listen guys, can you please not put r/physics below the equation? We are trying to build a 16x16  r/idlegamemaker logo right below your equation, and it would mean a lot to us if we could finish it.

[https://imgur.com/baGy4SU](https://imgur.com/baGy4SU) is the image of how our logo would look like if we finished it. Stop going into other territories you guys are really disrespectful >:(. Just got the 137-137 pixel in the white canvas :D. What do the lines between the symbols and the greater then symbols mean?

I was under the impression that it was just 
H x psi = E x psi

Don't know much about modern physics since I'm just 15 but I think it's pretty interesting stuff. Fully expanded. No indices.. Jesus, if we manage to pull that off 😂. WE ARE UNDER ATTACK

NEED REINFORCEMENTS ASAP. Thank you. shit, i don’t know the speed now. r/place, reddit April fools were everyone can place a pixel on a shared canvas every five minutes. Click on the P icon in the top or go to r/place. H|Ψ> = E|Ψ>. It's the core equation of quantum mechanics.. hiyeiy neighboureino. BTW, the people in our discord were talking with members of physics, and told us at least that it was cool to go under the = so if you took me for hostile I apologize.. You should also post this on r/PhysicsPlace. Its still there! You can find it at (588, 1093). We would love to and it would also be my personal favorite. However, creating and maintaining art on r/place turned out to be much more challenging than we anticipated. Furthermore, we came a bit late. Our community was formed in mere hours on the second last day of r/place. I was still surprised to see how quickly we managed to scramble something together!. I coordinated the equation this year. I did not partake in 2017 so I cannot answer your question :/. Nah it's still called the schrodinger equation. It's just the time independent S.E.. [deleted]. seconded. With the Feynman diagrams for added effect.. Negative Bravo-1, primary landing zone is too hot, sky's full of hostile wave functions. We've ID'd an annihilation operator in the cargo house one klick to your south, that's your weapon.. Okay guyz, it is all chill.

We made an alliance with our northern neighbor to coexist peacefully. They are allowed to paint black areas in our territory to complete their artwork while preserving the equation. So whoever is trying to keep the area black please stop. It is all good.

Also please join discord for better coordination. That's our main point of discussion.. *non-relativistic time-independent* quantum mechanics

🙃. just make sure it operates on the same variables that the hostile wavefunctions are represented in or you'll be shooting blanks. Noita is a really cool game, I highly recommend it! It has a very unique engine where every pixel is simulated, so there's a lot of cool interactions that can happen with destructible terrain, liquids, fires that can spread, corrosive liquids, etc. Copy that Bravo-3, we've already confirmed based on verified intel the enemy vacuum states are represented in the X-basis, so one shot is all it takes. HQ out. What other reason do we need. nan. This is posted on one of the grad students office's front door in my university, but I really never remember which one. Nice little reminder every time I see it. The unkempt beard and eye bags really make it. . Fuck at some point in my life I turned from the first to the second panel. Anti-matter is super dangerous. It creates extremely powerful explosions when it comes in contact with matter. We can't have that shit running around. That's why we need to capture it. . [deleted]. I mean isn't that why we're scientists? We're researching stuff because we think it's really interesting. The engineers can figure out how to use it haha. Man, when I read we trapped antimatter I jumped up and ran through the house yelling.

The rest of the people in the apartment thought something terrible happened until I explained. And then they thought I was retarded.

But... man, trapping antimatter was literately a childhood dream of mine. I know that sounds like the worlds dumbest childhood dream, but it's true.. I keep being distracted by the extra hair lump on the back of the guy’s head in the second panel. . Antimatter matters.. Most major discoveries in science weren't because they were working on something specific. They were just doing things and came across something interesting and went down that road which turned out to be major for humanity. Now we try to pigeon-hole science to do what we want, but doing that limits it and stagnates our progress.

 The problem is that major corporations get a huge amount of our money, and their drive is the bottom line. They have to do what works, because they are thinking on a wide scale for money. The government is the one that's suppose to fund innovation, but they end up in the pocket of corporations and then innovation deadens.

Granted, I'm just an average dude. Maybe we should ask all the scientists before deciding where science funding should go.. As a neuroscientist this is so painfully accurate for every finding I’ve ever had.

‘What is the point of knowing how our senses interact on the neuronal level?’

‘Don’t say because it’s cool, come up with something on the fly’. Because I can publish!. How else are you going to place a time bomb underneath the Vatican and then set up a treasure hunt of mutilated bodies for a Renowned Symbologist^TM to follow in an exciting and wildly implausible adventure?. Scientist have trapped antimatter the same reason we use regular matter.

They lock it in a big solenoid and make it fight to the death with other particles and see what happens. So far nothing that wasn't predicted, but that's not going to stop the blood thirsty phycistists. . NIH grantwriting process vs. NSF grantwriting process.. [Now I’m confused](https://i.imgur.com/5fkO12E.jpg)

Which year did we do this?. Physics is like sex: sure, it may give some practical results, but that's not why we do it. --Richard Feynman. Authoritarian governments: So we can build weapons of mass destruction, allowing us to secure our borders and destroy our enemies! (Also we'll make sure our antimatter technology isn't shared with other nations)

Hopefully this never happens. . Should be scientist before and after getting peer reviewed. . “Someone bet me I couldn’t make it work”. On one hand, I have moral qualms about doing defense research. On the other, it's really cool research. I went from PhD scientist to sales/advocate. I still have the bags and scruff, just much less depression.. What branch of science works on stuff like this?

&#x200B;. I worked on bacteria that can produce a current with wire like pili.   Every time a reporter talked to the professor, they would always ask "so I'll be driving my car powered by bacteria?"

Guess what he answered lol. Gotta get that sweet sweet funding.. Literally every scientist I’ve ever seen is exactly like this.. I truly believe this is a thing. I've written several grants, had to write those "why does it matter?" sections of papers, etc. with various coauthors. There's almost always a sense that we have to figure out some plausible applications so we can get published, or so we might get funded. It's obvious that the applications were never our top priority in doing the research.

You have this process that selects based on various things, but especially intellectual curiosity. Then you have these funding and publication requirements where, bizarrely, you need to tone that down and pretend like your highest value is what the research might mean for other people, not for the intrinsic reasons driving your behavior.. The second panel is literally an illustration of my college physics teacher. . Hi scientist though, FUCKING TRUE . Fucking magnets!. Wait did they actually?. And you can blow shit up with it too.. A surprisingly accurate depiction of [Jeffrey Hangst](http://scitech.au.dk/uploads/pics/jhangst_08.jpg), who does indeed trap antimatter for a living. . It's the other way around. Who is this "awesome" guy?. Scientists recently broke the record for the most powerful magnetic field ever created at 2800 Tesla.    Anyone know why they did that?  :). [deleted]. [deleted]. Thats the best motivation. Your grad students have doors?!. For any such cutting edge high energy physics, awesome is good enough. . The second panel is a scientist after getting peer reviewed.. I'm both panels. "Oh hey future applications for cool thing" "BUT WE DID COOL THING!". It's okay man.  I've been running around two weeks trying to get a project going by basically screaming "because it's fucking awesome" and advocate dude got it and translated it into something fundable.. I did too, right after turning to the first panel.. Probably right around when you started learning things beyond the clickbait news articles?. I need to shave.... Only when it comes into contact with the positive matter version of it's anti-matter self, I thought. Is that wrong?. Gonna add to this that if anyone goes to the source website, press the red button for a B&W extra panel and follow up joke.. Should be a sticky comment.. this describes mathemticians the best. . Physics is like sex: sure, it may give some practical results, but that's not why we do it. --Richard Feynman. Trapping antimatter sounds like the dream of a child in love with the future.. I'm an engineer, not a scientist, but I did something very similar at work when SpaceX landed the FH boosters simultaneously and most of my co-workers thought I had stroked out.. Even other physicists find it weird how interesting I find the traps that they use to capture the antimatter. The magnets alone are fascinating. . [deleted]. There are lots of other subtle differences now that I look closely, I guess they completely redrew for the second panel. It is a bit weird that they gave him an extra head lump, though.. It's all I can see now. . Antimatter causes cancer. All matter matters. Antimatter matter club . Or we can make the military think that we need a moon lab to make new space weapons.  Endless $$$. That's why businesses hire engineers. Universities fund science. ALL the money to high energy. ALL OF IT. "Soon to be a major motion picture!". 2012 is when we were able to have effective long term storage, 2011 was the first significant length it occured (16 minutes), and 2010 was when momentary storage became possible.. I mean, nukes exist already. So it won't unless antimatter somehow turns out to be easily made without raising suspicions.. Nuclear weapons already do the same thing. If it ain’t broken, don’t fix it ;). > Authoritarian governments: So we can build weapons of mass destruction, allowing us to secure our borders and destroy our enemies!

So only bad governments have devices like that? I mean, let's pretend every good government got rid of nuclear devices. How do you think that would work out for everyone?. Mainly Particle Physics or High Energy Physics. To study fucking awesome things like superconductors and the fractional quantum  hall effect. I suppose some think the magnetic fields are fucking awesome by themselves too without subjecting any material to them.. Certainly! In fact, at CERN (the home of the largest scientific user facilities and labs in the world) there's an entire laboratory called "The Antimatter Factory", where they basically do as the comic suggests: create and store antimatter. If my understanding is correct, they mostly collect and store positrons, but they may have figured out other particles as well: https://www.theverge.com/2013/8/28/4659834/unlocking-the-positron-fusion-annihilation-laser
Fun fact: antimatter is the most expensive substance in the world from a price-per-mass ratio lens.. What's the antimatter, professor?. PET scans involve shooting you with antimatter.. You can say the same on just about any technology that's been invented though. Transistors used to be much more expensive to make. Now you pay $100 for a couple hundred million of them. . No shit Sherlock, no one is arguing that antimatter will be commercially feasible in this thread. Lol wtf . Just because it's expensive more doesn't mean it won't be cheap in the future. That's why you keep experimenting with it. . Well it's definitely used for science purposes, e.g. in electron-positron colliders.. ULPT: If you're enough of a ~~dick and~~ public nuisance to other people while still getting your job done, you will be given your own room. . At my wife's school the grad students teach or TA some of the undergrad courses, so some of them get an office. It's shared amongst everyone in the program... but it has a door. . Back in my day I had my own office that I shared with only one other guy. He was rarely there so I basically had my own office, it was pretty awesome. It was because my PI's grant paid for the space to be refurbished that we got the nice offices. . Just doors, no offices. Physics is like sex: sure, it may give some practical results, but that's not why we do it. --Richard Feynman. Before and after receiving grant money checks

 . What is initium. [deleted]. "application? Was it supposed to have application?". I am the second panel who has to try and remember to pretend to be the first panel, lol.. The future applications have to be usable in order for someone else to make money off of it. So it is very frustrating that the only things society values is a fiat medium of exchange.. nah when I worked in a lab for a while. Its a joke; any antimatter atoms in this corner of the universe have already been annihilated by matching atoms. To trap antimatter, we first have to go through the trouble of actually making it, and then keep it out of contact with all atoms in the area.. Well, yeah, but you're surrounded by matter. So, boom. What counts as being the positive version of itself? Something that is the same (but in reverse) molecularly? Atomically?. Doesn’t has to be its antimatter self can just be any antimatter. >the red button

the votey. There's also a mouseover text on the ones that aren't super old.. Mathematicians like to say that the only problem physicists know how to solve is the simple harmonic oscillator.  That's not quite true but it's a good approximation.. Actually that wasn't Feynman.. Honestly, my mother got me hooked on Star Trek at a young age. TNG was airing for the first time. When we got an encyclopedia set, I would try and write down all the technobabble words they used. 

Then, after the episode aired, I'd go and look those technobabble words up in the encyclopedia set we had. Some weren't there. Antimatter and it's surrounding subjects were though.

Every time I read an article I'd write down all the words I didn't understand. Then I'd go look those up too. It was sort of like how people get lost on TV Tropes, but before the internet was a thing (well, I guess it existed, but wasn't open to the public yet!).

For whatever reason the idea of a matter-antimatter reactor really grabbed my imagination. It seemed like such a simple thing that I didn't understand why we weren't doing it *now*. 

I started drawing really bad sketches of how I imagined an antimatter generator would look. I mean, all you had to do was make a big accelerator, ionize the stuff and some big ole' magnetic fields at the end to 'catch' it. Couldn't be that hard could it?

Really i was just mashing together what I thought a particle accelerator looked like and slapping in parts of the engine room from Star Trek, but it meant a lot to me then.

Sadly I never got the chance to go into science (other things had to take higher priority), but I still like to read about people who do.. A guy in my lab has a photo of that landing as his desktop background and we have to see it every time he presents data during a meeting. It's rapidly gone from the coolest thing in the world to a running joke. How did you *not* notice that?. [deleted]. Deos antimatter antimatter?. Except antimatter.  . Antimatter is perfectly efficient at turning matter into energy. Nuclear reactions ain't shit in comparison.. all governments are bad :). Are there good governments?. [deleted]. The electron: may it never be of any use to anybody!. [deleted]. What a way to make incentives .... That's how it worked for mine. I taught in grad school and shared an office with 4 other TAs. Reversed. [It's a mobile/browser mmorpg](https://www.playinitium.com) that I've been working on with with a bunch of other Redditors (probably over 100 now) for the past 3 years.. I had a co-author suggest, with no humor whatsoever, that we remove all conclusions and avoid asserting anything with our study. . "Applications are for engineers, we just do cool shit" . Engineering for the win. Sort of opposite quantum properties. The anti matter version of an electron for example is the positron which has an opposite charge but the same mass and spin. nobody calls it that. nah the only things physcicst can do is break every problem they see into an oscillator. >That's not quite true but it's a good approximation.

Heh. Out of curiosity, who was it? I know Feynman also gets credited for "Shut up and calculate" even though that was Mermin.. Dang, that is my background too.... I guess if your thinking is more abstract than visual, you process the image as "hair here" instead of seeing the shape.. In fact, he routinely claims not to be. A running gag in the voteys is lists of things he can't draw.. He *is* a good artist though.... Or does matter antimatter?. Are you anti antimatter?. it's much more technically involved and expensive tho.

even if we manage to make antimatter in meaningful quantities some day, you could make several hundred nuclear warheads with comparable yield for the cost of a single antimatter warhead.

using them as weapons just isn't economical.

(and that's before we consider that most authoritian dictatorships already struggle with the technical requirements of nuclear weapons, the thought that they could just whip up the much, much more advanced tech for antimatter generation is laughable at best).. And? Nukes already flatten cities/countries. What more do you want.. Antimatter doesn't "turn matter into energy.". the leftist march on academia continues...

&#x200B;

(kidding, sort of- I want it to be real). Finland seems to be doing alright. . We've found antimatter. For example,  positrons and electrons are being formed from simple photons from outer space before being annihilated by each other back into photons all around us. . [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimatter#Artificial\_production](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimatter#Artificial_production)

&#x200B;

google is your friend.

we can't produce it in any meaningful quantities yet, but we can make enough to confirm that it's not just a theoretical construct.. This man physics toasts historically. In not saying you're wrong. I'm saying your observation is meaningless. Of course it has to get cheaper to be useful. That's true for anything. You aren't offering any kind of interesting insight, I doubt you'll find anyone that disagrees with the idea that a billion dollars a gram is unfeasible. . >billion dollars a gram

I spent some of my undergrad with the affluent parents + boat shoe types: I wouldn't put billion dollar grams past some of them.. What part of

>Will probably get cheaper over time like every other invention ever.

Did you not understand?. Oh yeah I should add: you can't let on it's malicious so people just feel bad for you and think you're a bit retarded or something. 

Like just talk too much about your deep insecurities and make people uncomfortable, tap your pen on shit, eat curry and warm canned tuna in the office, let cats piss on your clothes, sneeze into open air, rap badly over anime intro theme songs, be sticky and make everything you touch sticky. Etc 

Once they convert the storeroom into an office, you can drop the act.

I don't hate people, but fuck open offices and cubicles. . I just started playing it, it’s awesome . You made Initium?! Thank you for the vast amount of hours I would play on my phone wandering around trying not to die from go knows what. . We once included an explicit disclaimer in a paper that our result was only the first step in what had to be a much larger research effort for our applications to be viable, and were shot down because saying "first" claimed more novelty than appropriate.  


You can't win.. "Shouldn't you be finding a solution to a problem?"

"Don't worry, all of our solutions have possible problems.". "Maybe somebody already has a use for it, one for which it's perfectly designed.". The comic's creator does.. Everybody calls it that. No idea. Someone made it up and attributed it to Feynman.. Yeah, that was basically what I was getting at. I don't think the people who downvoted me read the comic much.... None of this antimatters!. So... He's pro matter?. Exactly this. When creating weapons, one has to consider cost, effectiveness, rarity of materials, complexity of creation, maintenance and a bunch of other things. 

When compared to potential antimatter weapons, nuclear weapons are just more cost effective and easier to make/obtain while having the essentially same effect that people care about. 

Perhaps some time in the future when we obtain the means to create and contain antimatter on large scale, superpowers MIGHT attempt to create such weapons, if for nothing else other than display of power. . Is there some technicality I'm overlooking? Annihilation is literally the process of antimatter turning an equal amount of matter (and itself) into gamma rays. . But doing alright is fragile. An invasion into the Baltic states and they might become more isolationist and nationalistic in a defensive response.. “The antiprotons are still hot when initially trapped. To cool them further, they are mixed into an electron plasma. The electrons in this plasma cool via cyclotron radiation, and then sympathetically cool the antiprotons via Coulomb collisions. Eventually, the electrons are removed by the application of short-duration electric fields, leaving the antiprotons with energies less than 100 meV.[52] While the antiprotons are being cooled in the first trap, a small cloud of positrons is captured from radioactive sodium in a Surko-style positron accumulator.[53] This cloud is then recaptured in a second trap near the antiprotons. Manipulations of the trap electrodes then tip the antiprotons into the positron plasma, where some combine with antiprotons to form antihydrogen. This neutral antihydrogen is unaffected by the electric and magnetic fields used to trap the charged positrons and antiprotons, and within a few microseconds the antihydrogen hits the trap walls, where it annihilates. Some hundreds of millions of antihydrogen atoms have been made in this fashion.”

That’s fucking awesome . Holy crap *that's* fucking dedication.

It's sorta open offices, sorta private rooms. Each room is big enough to hold like 12 cubicles + some free space, and there are doors to access these rooms that require keys, but you can walk freely from cubicle to cubicle.. Hah real talk!

I got moved from an office with two other people to my own office in  a converted storeroom for typing non stop all day on a model M.  I learned to type on a typewriter so I have a hard keypress to begin with.
. FUCK. OPEN. OFFICES.

I would kill for a cubicle right now. Personal offices are a dream.. Oh thanks! :D. oof. Nothing ever antimatters. i read a really interesting paper about antimatter boosted fusion bombs once that would be incredibly devastating, but even they admitted that the required warhead geometry very likely was incompatible with the tech required to contain the antimatter.. You make a lot of sense friend. I see it now, all governments are awful, best to close up shop on them all and build a flaming guitar truck. . Haha I'm pulling from a list of things I've seen in the workplace. 

The time I was given my own room all I had to do was solder in the office (lab had too much explodey stuff in it for hotwork) and burn a lot of plastic.

. > converted

I read that as coveted. Could you link me to the paper? It sounds interesting. 

But yeah, current technology is no way near being able to weaponize antimatter in a way that would make then more effective than standard nuclear weapons. 

It is more likely for the weapons researchers to look into the design of pure fusion bombs. Still, antimatter makes for cool science fiction stories, and that will have to do for now. . Burn a lot of plastic? In my experience, soldering stations are *unreasonably* good at fusing plastics. If it weren't for the fumes, I would market them for that even more than actual soldering. Either way, fun times.... [https://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0507125](https://arxiv.org/abs/physics/0507125)

&#x200B;

enjoy :). You're exactly right. Stupid ROHS solder and pulling factory boards apart without hot air = burned FR4. Plus I used brominated hydrocarbon juice as flux (really good cancer giving stuff). 

It did help a bit that I was complaining loudly that if I didn't get a fume extractor soon, we were all gonna die.

Good times indeed.. Honestly are you really even doing science if you're not in some sort of obvious-but-nebulous danger for at least 2hrs/day.

r/gatekeeping please don't come for me. My lungs kinda hurt after I solder but I'm sure I'll be fiiiine When France switched to the meter in the 18th century, they placed 16 of these across Paris so that people would be able to tell exactly how long a meter is.. nan. This is the only remaining one.. The United States should do this in major cities when they switch..  Since the meridional circumference of the earth is ~ 40,000 km, 1 metre was defined as 10^-7 th of the distance from the North Pole to the Equator. If I remember correctly, two French astronomers measured the Dunkirk Barcelona meridian from the North Pole to the Equator which runs through Paris to define the *metre*. 

Now, of course, the metre is defined as the distance traveled by light in 1/299792458 th of a second.. [deleted]. A fascinating read is about the two Frenchman (Mechain and Delambre) tasked with measuring the part of the meridian through Paris.  If I remember correctly the book is "The Measure of All Things".  They set out at the time of the French revolution with letters from the King.  This and their equipment alone caused suspicion and they were detained several times.  Mechain measured Paris South across the Pyrenees and into Spain.  He got stuck in Spain trying to return, ended up sailing to Italy (I think), ended up back in Spain.  This time in Spain with all the triangulation completed he recomputed his starting points in a different direction; A to B instead of B to A and came up with a different number which meant that his original data was incorrect.  On return to Paris is spent maybe years trying to reconcile the data.  In the end the French Academy of Science realizing, because of the accuracy of their data, that not all meridians were the same length and abandoned this approach and used some other.  Mechain spent most of the rest of his life trying to reconcile his numbers.  He even got permission to go back (I think to Spain) and extend his measurements further South.  There he contracted malaria (or Yellow Fever) and died.   Anyway, an engaging and fascinating read.. What did they switch from?. 36 Rue Vaugirard, for those interested.. 2 centuries later, USA still struggle to use meaningful units. And how to spell metre too.. http://www.imgrum.org/media/1390758554268509666_306616871. Translation (please correct any mistakes, francophones):

>The National Convention, so as to generalize/popularize the usage of the metric system, had sixteen meter calibrators/standards placed in marble in the most frequented places in Paris.

>These meters were installed between February 1796 and December 1797.  This one here is of the last two that remain/still exist in Paris and the only one which is still in its original site.. Zoomed in to read the sign, then I remembered I don't speak French. . Man I wish the US would switch . I need a banana for scale. All smart countries use it! . Metre. Hmm, meter you say? Looks like a metre to me. Gosh, it even says that on the stone. . Wow, Paris is only 16 meters wide!. /r/physics reached the front page.. What were the french using before switching to metric system?. There's a great radiolab about France and the metric system, and standardization of measurements on physical units http://www.radiolab.org/story/kg/. TIL Paris is 16 meters long . >When France switched to the met**re** in the 18th century, they placed 16 of these across Paris so that people would be able to tell exactly how long a meter is.  
  
  
*FTFY ^it ^was ^right ^there ^in ^the ^picture.... Howmany people laid out their dicks on this?. [deleted]. [deleted]. A metre is today defined as the distance travelled by light in vacuum in 1/299 729 458 of a second, but why such a specific fraction?

Because it was initially derived from being 1/10,000,000 of distance from either poles of the earth to the equator.

But imagine if the earth was ever so slightly bigger, maybe about 100m thicker, and the derivation remained the same; the metre would be ever so slightly longer.

That would make a litre slightly larger, but people who sell milk would still probably sell it at the same price for the slightly larger litre for the sake of simplicity.

And so we get more milk when the Earth is bigger. *mindblown*. More evidence that if you drop the adverbs in a reddit post title, nothing of value is lost. . The writing next to it says it's one of the last _two_ surviving standard metres but it is the only one in its original place.

It would be interesting to know how this matches up to the ~~real~~ current definition of the metre.. This is the only one remaining*. Does anyone know where exactly in Paris you can find it?. They really metered them out.... I was going to say "wow i wonder if someone made it a challenge to find them all"

. s/when/if/. [deleted]. Probably only another 500 years or so longer.. [deleted]. lol, The US is one of the only countries that teach and use both. 
. Was there a significant difference between the current meter and the one that was derived from the North Pole to Equator measurement? That fraction seems very specific, is it to get as close to the old measurement as possible while creating a new measurement that would be universal?. For those interested in SI units and how they're defined, here's a great video [about how the Kilogram is defined](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZMByI4s-D-Y). Before that though, the meter was defined as a length of a pendulum whose period is 2 seconds (or half-period is 1 second). Beautiful but useless in modern physics due to a myriad of other factors that can affect the pendulum.. Go there with a tape, measure it, and post a pic!. take a banana with you, for scale.. Something retarded and archaic, just like the imperial system. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Units_of_measurement_in_France_before_the_French_Revolution#Length. Watch [The French Revolution on Crash Course World History](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTTvKwCylFY).
They switched from multiple systems to a single metric system. This was done to simplify the taxation process. . And to make things even more interesting, the NIST which calibrates imperial units in the USA uses a kilogram as it's reference mass standard.  So the "freedom units" (the mass ones anyway) that some Redditors refer to are kept accurate with reference to the metric system. [Source]( https://www.nist.gov/physical-measurement-laboratory/introduction). The imperial units IS meaningful, it is just outdated now that everything is more precise.
Mesuring something with a foot, or any bodypart is not that retarded. 
But using the decimal system is actually easier and more universal.. the list is broader, the USA, Myanmar(Burma) and Liberia... still struggle to use meaningful units. The US is in good company /sarcasm. Meter is correct, it's the American spelling.. Zoomed in and was immediately impressed by the resolution of the image. Nope, the stone says mètre, and meter is the American spelling.. mètre, pas metre.. Sounds interesting, thanks!. I used the American spelling. And actually, what's in the picture is mètre, not metre, if we're going to be pedantic.. The picture is french.. How often are people converting units anyways. I do plenty of dimensional analysis and never really cared whether it was metric or imperial (imperial is actually a bit nicer imo because the conversions are specific numbers which are harder to screw up than just forgetting a zero).

It was never a problem for me (metric vs imperial), and the actual values are arbitrary as fuck. At least imperial values have some cool history behind why they are what they are..  The shelf edge is 4cm tall.. I imagine it would be pretty damn close to the official length of a meter still, considering the new standard came about as a way to more properly define the distance referred to by this very brick.. If not we will have to REWRITE THE TEXTBOOKS

- Science Reporter probably.... New meter would be a better name.. The difference in length of the marble metre caused by thermal expansion between day and night would be more than the difference between this metre and the current standard.. This is a real metre.... I'm totally late to this party, but it's probably at least 40ppm off, due to errors in the original geodesy, which were introduced by the French-Spanish war.   If you're interested, you should read "The Measure of All Things" (also available as an audiobook), which describes the crazy (mis-)adventures of the teams that set out to invent geodesy and measure the length of the meter.  

They worked for some time, got their equipment together, and set out from Paris to measure the size of the Earth.  One team went North, and one team went South.  It was June of 1789.  They ran into some trouble along the way.
. The metric system is a bad deal for America, very bad, believe me. We're gonna come back next year and negotiate until we get a good deal, the best deal.. be a bit more general here, let's make that s/when/if/g. /r/Metric . Last time I checked, Liberia and Burma don't have a space program.
. NASA have been using metric for a while now.. Actually the apollo computers mainly calculated in metric/SI units but output was converted back to freedom units.

http://www.doneyles.com/LM/Tales.html. Yet now have to beg the Russians to get to the space station. . There's two types of countries: those on metric, and those that don't have maternity leave.

. We use the Imperial system (which comes from an empire that doesn't even *exist* anymore) because fuck the Brits *somethingsomething* John Hancock *somethingsomething* Independence.

We went to the moon because fuck the Russians *somethingsomething* Sputnik *somethingsomething* Cold War.

I keep hoping we will do something because it is the sane thing, or the right thing, or the awesome thing, but historically our motivations have always been external.. There are two types of countries. Those that use metric, and those that elected Donald Trump as President. . The same bullshit excuse you subhuman americans gargle up every time. This on metric, and those who don't believe in climate change. SAD.. There are two types of countries - those who use metric, and those who have [things like this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_Climate_Orbiter#Cause_of_failure) happen to them.. ##Metrication in the United States
Metrication (or metrification) is the process of introducing the International System of Units (or SI), more commonly known as the metric system, to replace the traditional or customary units of measurement of a country or region. Although all U.S. customary units have been redefined in terms of SI units, the United States does not commonly mandate the use of SI. This, according to the CIA Factbook, makes the United States one of only three countries, as of 2016, with Myanmar (Burma) and Liberia, that have not adopted, or are not in the process of adopting, the metric system as their official system of weights and measures.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove. Erm... No! I'm from the UK and still use miles. I currently live in Canada and they sell beer by the Oz. . The currently measured value of earth's meridional circumference  is 40,008 km. Since the 18th century French Academy of Sciences was off by 8 km in measuring the meridional circumference, the error in the definition of their metre is only 8/(4 x 10^7 )km=0.0002 m compared to currently accepted metre.. The new definition can be reproduced more reliably and with higher accuracy.

The old definition basically relied on a prototype, subject to thermal expansion, deformation, grime buildup and shaving off a few atoms when cleaning. 

According to a quick Wikipedia, scan, accuracy is 10^−7 for the prototype - which is pretty impressive already, 10^−8 for the new definition.

And yes, of course the idea is to stick with the original value. . The fraction comes from the fact that light travels at 299,792,458 m/s (in a vacuum) in all reference frames.. The semi-meridian measurement was never that accurate (by modern measure on WGS-84 ellipsoid, it measures about 10 002 km).  However, measuring the earth every time you wanted to measure anything was a PITA so they made a bar, the Prototype Meter.  They made new ones based on it to distribute to countries  that signed the 1875 Treaty of the Meter (including US).  Later definitions in terms of a wavelengths of a krypton emission line and then speed of light were made to match the original prototype bar as closely as possible, not the definition of the semi-meridian.. [deleted]. Being in the US, I can't stand that we typically use such a backward unit of measurement. So needlessly complicated.. SECTION | CONTENT
:--|:--
Title | The French Revolution: Crash Course World History #29
Description | In which John Green examines the French Revolution, and gets into how and why it differed from the American Revolution. Was it the serial authoritarian regimes? The guillotine? The Reign of Terror? All of this and more contributed to the French Revolution not being quite as revolutionary as it could have been. France endured multiple constitutions, the heads of heads of state literally rolled, and then they ended up with a megalomaniacal little emperor by the name of Napoleon. But how did all of...
Length | 0:11:55

 

 
 
 
****
 
^(I am a bot, this is an auto-generated reply | )^[Info](https://www.reddit.com/u/video_descriptionbot) ^| ^[Feedback](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=video_descriptionbot&subject=Feedback) ^| ^(Reply STOP to opt out permanently). [The American Kilogram](https://youtu.be/SmSJXC6_qQ8). Every unit is defined off the same natural properties, because it would be silly and a waste of money to do it with multiple natural phenomena.. > Mesuring something with a foot, or any bodypart is not that retarded

Good thing body parts never shrink nor get swollen. technically speaking that is how the whole measuring of ocean(water) depth began in the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean... counting how many **orguia** [*outstretched arm-lengths*(fathom)] it took of rope for the anchor to hit the sea floor.  Of course this is roughly two thousand years ago. So this speaks volumes for how antiquated the US measurement system actually is. Minoan Greeks were more advanced than modern US in metrics(pun fully intended).. Those two are now using the metric system.. From what I understand, Canada and the UK also have some trouble with their everyday units.  Sometimes using feet/inches for measuring the height of a person, or stranger things like stone for body weight (this one doesn't appear in Canada).. > Meter is correct, it's the American spelling.

So not actually correct then. . That's the French resolution.. Really? The American spelling of metre, is meter. 

Wow, you'll be telling me you still use imperial measurements next - that would be really funny!. My correction was in English.... Actually, the definition of the meter is the distance light travels in ~3 x 10^-8 seconds (in a vacuum), and a second is defined in terms of the time of transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of a cesium atom.. This isn't true.


The actual meter reference before it was change to use light was a metal  rod kept in a controlled environnement   at  the BIPM (international bureau of weight and measure) in the town of Sevres next to Paris. 


That stone was made based on that metal rod.


Although the metal rod is not used anymore it is still kept  at  the BIPM for historical reason.


The reference for the kilogram  is also  kept there. Since there is still no way to define the kilogram based  on  physical constants,  the kilogram  is the last unit still based on an artefact ( in the case of the kilogram  a metal cylinder  about 5 inches tall and 3  inches wide) kept under a three vacuum bell to minimize its decay.. Elsevier, too, probably. Don't forget Elsevier.. Pearson. But they do that every year anyways.. The Neter, perhaps.. The meter is now defined in terms of the speed of light, as opposed to being a standard measuring stick held in Paris.

Specifically, it's defined as the distance light in vacuum travels in 1/299,792,458 seconds.

The only unit still defined in terms of a standard measuring device is the kilogram, and it's under intense discussion to more fundamentally redefine it.. The meter is defined differently nowadays.. This is a digital image of an obsolete replica metre.. But Mr. President. Hillary said you don't have the guts to make the switch.. nano  
ctrl-w  
when  
<backspace>*4  
if  
ctrl-x  
<enter>. Those two are now using the metric system. [deleted]. And in that time NASA hasn't sent anyone to the moon.. [deleted]. ##Mars Climate Orbiter
The Mars Climate Orbiter (formerly the Mars Surveyor '98 Orbiter) was a 338-kilogram (745 lb) robotic space probe launched by NASA on December 11, 1998 to study the Martian climate, Martian atmosphere, and surface changes and to act as the communications relay in the Mars Surveyor '98 program for Mars Polar Lander. However, on September 23, 1999, communication with the spacecraft was lost as the spacecraft went into orbital insertion, due to ground-based computer software which produced output in non-SI units of pound (force)-seconds (lbf·s) instead of the SI units of newton-seconds (N·s) specified in the contract between NASA and Lockheed. The spacecraft encountered Mars on a trajectory that brought it too close to the planet, causing it to pass through the upper atmosphere and disintegrate.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove. Let's go down to the pub for a 568 ml and talk about weighing people in stones.. The US sells Pepsi by the litre.. I mean, I get what you are saying. I just find it interesting how Reddit loves to blow shit about the US not using the Metric system. As it turns out, Metric and Imperial are both useful in their own fashions. I don't understand why more countries don't use Imperial for construction. You can easily and readily divide Imperial units by more fractions than Metric, for instance. . Only 0.2 millimetres then? Not bad for 18th century.. Just think of the karma!. You’ll remember to have brought a tape measure with you when you walk by?. Remindme! 24 hours. . It is entrenched. Had it been changed before the industrial revolution, it would have been much easier. Now I don't ever expect to see a full switch. Scientists will use metric but the construction industry and some other industries have no motivation to switch to SI.

The closest we got was some road signs with miles and kilometers, and cars usually have both MPH and KPH on the speedometer. Oh, and people run 5K races and you can buy a liter of water. But you won't be buying hectares of land or buying a house measured in square meters any time soon.. You guys still use the metric system. Everything just gets converted into imperial units at some point, then converted back for science, then back to imperial for public usage. You can see how this would lead to problems.... If you switched to metric I would be so happy. Good thing they're the same size for everyone . One of my parts is swollen right now. Another good thing everybody has the same sized feet and inches. All the stones weigh the same too.. Or differ from person to person either.. All units of measure are arbitrary . since the 70's (at least) I know that Canada went metric, but because of doing so much business with the USA, they had to keep certain imperial units for trade purposes.. Aluminum v2.0. Meter is definitely the more logical spelling in English. It sounds like you judge how good a system is based on its popularity not on how logical it is. . In French the act of measuring is "vas te faire mètre" for context. Meter is a much more logical spelling in English. It seems that you don't actually judge systems based on how logical they are, but how popular they are. If we lived in a world where everyone but France used Imperial instead of metric, I bet you would be calling metric units retarded.. Well yeah, but what he is saying is the rule that you quoted was to define the length of that brick. So of course they are going to be nearly identical. . So which came first? This brick or the precision instruments necessary to determine speed of light in a vacuum and atomic vibrations? I'd hazard a guess the definitions came after. . That's a long way to tell that it would be close, but not enough. 

To add to your answer, it's actually not just *any light*, but a certain wavelength emission line of krypton-86.

Also the stone should've been damaged by weather and maybe the mark is less accurated than when it was first drawn.. Thanks for that!. If we want to get rid of that tilde, it is 299,792,458m/s exactly.

That's why we use 3x10^8 as an approximation. It's 99.9308% accurate.. Wasn't it the longitude a shadow would expand during equinox at miday on the equator, in the time spand of an hour ?. It didn't matter if I forgot Elsevier at Uni... I never used it anyway. . Well we chose that proportion of the speed of light so it matched up with the stick in Paris.. How much of a difference in size would a metre be, if they switched it to 1/3x10^8 It just seems to me like if you're going to change the derivation, you might as well make it an even number. However, if that would make a metre too different, I guess maybe not. 

People usually round off the speed of light that way anyway. It would be cool if it wasn't rounded, and everything else would be similar. Although for industries, over large accumulations it would definitely be a big difference no matter what, but computers should be able to cope well enough.

Maybe I'm doing the math stupidly, but I *think* the metre would therefore only be 0.00069228559m larger than it is now, which would be imperceptible. 

Do you know why they didn't just round it off? I must be missing something here.. I thought the measure of one kilo was currently based on a specified quantity of a particular atom? 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kilogram#Atom-counting_approaches

So apparently they're still working on the best standard. TIL
. The measuring stick was itself defined as a portion of the circumference of the earth. It wasn't an arbitrary measure. . This is how I measure things too. With a flashlight and a stopwatch.. To me it seems like it would be pretty easy to redefine the kilogram as a certain number of atoms of a particular element. New definitions refined precision, trying each time to not alter the size of the meter. The 1795 definition had a 10^−4 uncertainty as compared to 10^-10 now, but we're certainly talking about the same unit of measurement (unlike, say, feet or leagues, which have represented very different lengths depending on the era and place where they were used).. Ceci n'est pas un metre.. According to the placard it's one of the originals.. Fuck mr him her!! SWITCH PLEASE. cat distance.file | sed 's/when/if/g' > ItsANewWorld.file 

Or even :

sed -i 's/when/if/g' distance.file . r/shittyaskscience. Yes but they avoided crashing million dollar space programs.. More people voted for Trump than have been to the Moon or helped anyone get to the Moon. Far more people.

So I don't see that argument working in your favour.. ...and weed by the gram.. Imperial is not more useful in any way shape or form. The only reason places like Canada or the UK still use imperial measurements in any way are because of the cost of converting or cultural norms. But nobody under 60 actually thinks imperial measurements are better. . More like 0.2 millimetres. 10,000 km is ten million metres, not one million.. I will be messaging you on [**2017-06-09 06:29:19 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2017-06-09 06:29:19 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6fv1uy/when_france_switched_to_the_meter_in_the_18th/dim7afp)

[**3 OTHERS CLICKED THIS LINK**](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/6fv1uy/when_france_switched_to_the_meter_in_the_18th/dim7afp]%0A%0ARemindMe!  24 hours. ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! dim7al8)

_____

|[^(FAQs)](http://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^(Custom)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^(Your Reminders)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^(Feedback)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^(Code)](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)|[^(Browser Extensions)](https://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/4kldad/remindmebot_extensions/)
|-|-|-|-|-|-|. We changed in Australia in 1975 from imperial to metric. We have  become so used to metric in that time that imperial measurements are confusing to everybody under 50. 

Yes the Australian construction industry uses metric too and houses and land are measured and sold in sq. metres and in hectares.

I spent a month in England back last September and tried to get re-used to driving speeds using miles per hour instead of kilometres per hour, and distances measured in miles.

My poor old TomTom had a split personality measuring parts of a mile in decimals down to a quarter of a mile and then switching to yards. Note the hiatus at the change from miles to yards where the numbers jump rather than steadily decreasing

0.7 ... 0.6 ... 0.5 ... 0.4 ... 0.3 ... 400 ..  300 ... 200

Normally it's measuring kilometres to 1.0 km and then measuring seamlessly in metres

1.2 ... 1.1 ... 1.0 ... 900 .. 800 .. 700. Canada switched in 70's as well. Though it's still a somewhat haphazard conversion due to the proximity of the US. We use metric for some things and imperial for others. . Other countries switched well after the industrial revolution, and they are doing just fine. The US could switch if it wanted to.. We tried to switch in the late 70s.

Reagan put a stop to it.. Next thing you know your orbiter has tuned into a crashlander. Something something something mars climate orbiter. Yep. And I'd rather have the arbitrary units be somewhat convenient.

Plus it's nice to have the history attached to the units. It reminds you of where things came from (how often are people doing dimensional analysis where things being in decimal system save all that much time anyways).

. You are quite correct, Meter is is a much more logical way to spell the word, but as the French invented the metric system, it's up to them how it's spelled. 

And please, I'm not praising the metric system because it's popular, but because it works better. Do me a favour, grab a piece of paper and do the calculations to add 3/16" to 1/3''. 

Thats retarded. It's lots easier to answer 13.22mm. The metric system works much better than the imperial system which is clearly illogical. . But the brick has weathered and changed since then, the speed of light at that specific frequency hasn't, neither has the half life of that Cesium isotope.

They would have been very close at the moment when they redefined the meter, but it would be interesting to see how the brick changed from then until now.. So I believe what your are referring to is the [change in wavelength between two energy states of krypton-86](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_metre), which has nothing to do with the above claimed definition relating time of light travel in seconds to the length of a meter. . Regardless of the wavelength of light it will still travel the same speed in a vacuum. 

The only time the wavelength could possibly come into play is when you are doing experiments with light in particular mediums. Such as when experimentalist have been trying to slow light down to almost a standstill in some crystal structures I believe they use particular wavelengths of light and not just any wavelength of light, however I'm not 100% confident they need to it's just the only place I can imagine it could be relevant.. > but a certain wavelength emission line of krypton-86.

That 1960 definition was a count of wavelengths of that emission line.  I don't believe the wavelength matters in the speed of light definition (1983).. I'm... I'm not sure I follow. They're a major academic publisher. How did you "not use" them?. Yes, of course. But the "new definition" is based on things that shouldn't vary with time, whereas the stick could be lost, damaged, or just change size with normal erosion, or change size due to a change of conditions (temperature, pressure, etc)

If we still use the meter in 1 million years, the new definition will not have moved, whereas the stick could be quite different.. Because in many applications this is a lot. It would screw up every measurement before it and you'd end up with a staggered rollout of new metres. Then you have two contractors building different parts for you and now you've just blown up a rocket - which would have failed to reach its destination anyway as its navigation system is in old metres and you're sending it instructions in new.. > I think the metre would therefore only be 0.00069228559m larger than it is now, which would be imperceptible.

I didn't check your math, but 0.7mm would absolutely be perceptible - [that's not even paper thin](http://i.imgur.com/zsCQwyS.png).. Because the metre was the basis of the new system of measurements.

They wanted something brand new - something unified, universal, that wasn't linked to one country or one king or one culture - so the first thing they did, was measure the world.

They didn't do the entire world - but they did measure from Dunkirk to Barcelona, which (if I remember correctly) was one tenth of a million of the distance from the pole to the equator.

And once they had that, they said:  
Okay, a box **one metre** on each side filled with water will be a ton.  
1/1000 of that will be a kilogram.  
We'll use water for temperature as well - 0 is freezing, 100 is boiling.  
The energy required to increase the heat of one kilo of water one degree will be one calorie.  
Electric current will be the Ampere - the current required to create a specific attraction between to conductors **one meter** apart.

Even some definitions of the intensity of light relies on the metre.


----

It would fuck up everything.. They probably didn't want to rewrite a lot of texts. If the USA ever converts to metric, I'm certain they will do exactly this.. 0.7 mm is quite a large difference for many applications. ##Kilogram
The kilogram or kilogramme (SI unit symbol: kg) is the base unit of mass in the International System of Units (SI) (the Metric system) and is defined as being equal to the mass of the International Prototype of the Kilogram (IPK, also known as "Le Grand K" or "Big K").

The avoirdupois (or international) pound, used in both the imperial and US customary systems, is defined as exactly 0.45359237 kg, making one kilogram approximately equal to 2.2046 avoirdupois pounds. Other traditional units of weight and mass around the world are also defined in terms of the kilogram, making the IPK the primary standard for virtually all units of mass on Earth.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove. Too bad they got their measurement wrong, so the earth is not exactly 40000km in circumference at a meridian, more like 40008km.. How do you count the atoms?. Is not that easy, the same amount of atoms can give different mass. Even the same group of atoms in different arrangements can give us differences in measure.. According to the placard, it's "a marble metre...Out of two remaining to this day, this is the only one **in its original place**". This is not an original, [official metre prototype](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/bb/Platinum-Iridium_meter_bar.jpg).. Still didn't get to the moon.. And caffeine by the gram per fluid ounce. > Imperial is not more useful in any way shape or form. 

I'm confused. Metric can easily be divided by halves (5), fifths (2) and wholes (10). Imperial can easily be divided by halves (6), thirds (3), fourths (4), and wholes (12). 

Why do you prefer a system that has LESS functionality? Especially concerning the construction of buildings? 

I get the scalability argument. It is surely easier to convert from millimeters to meters than inches to miles... But how often in everyday circumstance are you have to make those conversions?

>  But nobody under 60 actually thinks imperial measurements are better. 

I am 34. I think Metric and Imperial BOTH HAVE THEIR PLACE. One is better for science, one is better for building a house. Why on earth do you feel this need to condescend about it?

Please note, I'm not saying Imperial is the only thing we should use. I think it's hilarious that there is such a fucking stink over something so mundane. . You should have more consistentency with which decimal symbol you use. Using a point in the first statement and then using the point as comma in the second.. Yeah, I'm in the construction industry in Canada and I'd say its about 70% imperial and 30% metric. Just gotta learn both.. Ah, you understood exactly where I was going with that :P. Who would have guessed that the original meter object could have degraded over time? Couldn't possibly have been the scientists who later defined it in terms of a non degradable measurement.... 


Yes I suppose it would be interesting to see if the brick degraded like any other comparable brick in similar conditions over a couple hundred years, or if it has magical meter properties that would astonish us all...


I swear this comment chain is silly. . ##History of the metre
In the aftermath of the French Revolution (1789), the traditional units of measure used in the Ancien Régime were replaced. The livre monetary unit was replaced by the decimal franc, and a new unit of length was introduced which became known as the metre. Although there was initially considerable resistance to the adoption of the new metric system in France (including a period of official reversion to customary units, mesures usuelles), the metre gained adoption in continental Europe during the mid nineteenth century, particularly in scientific usage, and was officially established as an international measurement unit by the Metre Convention of 1875.

***

^[ [^PM](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=kittens_from_space) ^| [^Exclude ^me](https://reddit.com/message/compose?to=WikiTextBot&message=Excludeme&subject=Excludeme) ^| [^Exclude ^from ^subreddit](https://np.reddit.com/r/Physics/about/banned) ^| [^FAQ ^/ ^Information](https://np.reddit.com/r/WikiTextBot/wiki/index)   ^]
^Downvote ^to ^remove. Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_metre
***
^HelperBot ^v1.1 ^/r/HelperBot_ ^I ^am ^a ^bot. ^Please ^message ^/u/swim1929 ^with ^any ^feedback ^and/or ^hate. ^Counter: ^77491. I was just saying that what was used for the new measurement of a meter was the emission of krypton-86... Calm down, guys.... I thought you were making a joke in reference to the textbook side specifically. How... textbooks are revised every year despite not having any real new material.

I thought that was the joke you were making. "Elsevier are excited to hear that textbooks need to be rewritten to legitimize the scamming of Uni students"

Looks like I'm dumb and missed your point/joke. Libgen. :P. Ya, well the computers would need to compute for the new measurements. So your new metres would need to roll out as functions of the old ones. 

I get it that it would be complicated, but you just need to call them something fancy like "true meter" or whatever word until it becomes the standard. 

For all real precise stuff, they would generally use computers, and once that project is done, the next one won't bother with it. For projects that might be ongoing, you just need to make sure you use the proper terminology. 

That said, it might be a lot of work just so that c is a round number. . Depends on what you're doing.  If two adjacent metal surfaces are 0.02mm misaligned, you can detect that running your fingernail across the joint.   There are a ton of everyday objects you use that manufactured to that kind of tolerance (or tighter.). 0.7mm is a big deal man. . Oh ya, I forgot about dm and was one whole order of magnitude off in my mind lol. Still, not a big deal imo. I mean it would be perceptible, but not to the naked eye, without precise measuring tools.. Great point. The meter is one of the fundamental six SI units. By redefining it you would have to redefine most other units as well. And since the American units are defined by their SI counterpart, you would even have to redefine them. It would be a huge amount of work for very little gain.. What a horrible failure.. Just weight them.. By getting a perfect sphere of silicone with an exact known circumference.

Sauce: 
https://www.wired.com/2010/10/platinum-silicon-kilogram-standard/. unless you're talking about isotopes, structure and mass are independent. The same number of atoms definitely weights the same.. These official metre prototypes were made almost 100 years later, in 1889, though. So I'm not sure what you mean. How can you consider something that was made 100 later to be the original?. You're right, I should have noticed that. Thank you, I've changed it!. I don't understand at all how decimals and commas are used overseas in numbers, someone teach me?. Are you counting things sold in units like 454g and 5.08cm in the imperial or in the metric category? ;-). You're agreeing with me completely. But /u/rmtravis seems to think that the meter brick would magically stay the same after all these years.. The point of the thing is to show that a meter is about yay long. It still does that.. Sorry. Didn't mean to give you a hard time man. :p

Why do they define it based on that emission? I don't see any reason why it would make a difference... :/ 

Or was that just how they did the experiment?. I guess it wasn't the best joke, my apologies. :). [These balls ups actually happen.](https://www.wired.com/2010/11/1110mars-climate-observer-report/) And that (like several others) happened with distinct units.. Absolutely.

But, I think you meant to reply one down.. I think the tightest tolerance in everyday objects is supposed to be the depth of the indent on 'tin' cans that are just right so you can peel the top off. . Yeah, that's what I said.. Like other people have said, precise alignment matters a lot in some applications. Also, having an unwieldy number like that isn't really as big a problem as it may seem at first glance.  . [removed]. Silicon != silicone.. This is incorrect. Energy contributes to the total mass of a system. A system with a fixed number of atoms may have slightly different mass depending on how they are arranged.. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

I don't really care that much. I was just trying to translate the last line of the sign so that people didn't think it was claiming to be an "original metre".. I'm French so here is a side by side comparison :

France : 1/2 = 0,5

USA : 1/2 = 0.5

France : One million = 1 000 000 **or** 

One million = 1.000.000 (I've seen both but mostly the first one) 

USA : One million = 1,000,000

In my case, I had originally used a different phrasing and when I went back to modify it I ended up changing conventions mid-sentence.... Wood is generally sold in imperial, but concrete is generally sold in metric.  A lot of times if the two line up you will get a strange measurement like you listed.  many times you'll get a 30cm foot or a 90.8cm metre.

Most groceries I see are packaged in pounds but then sold as grams.  . Of course it wouldn't be the same, I said it would be nearly identical. Marble doesn't really degrade that much over the course of 35 years.. > Or was that just how they did the experiment?

Dat. All good mate! . Try the fits of any sort of rotating elements you run into on a daily basis.

Any sort of bearing, bushing, or shaft have much tighter tolerances to ensure proper fits, be it press fit, sliding, etc. Any sort of engine, electric motor, etc. is going to have at least one fitment on the order of tenths or even thousandths of a millimeter.. replied to the wrong level, sorry. Also, they did it with hand-made instruments in 1792-98, while the revolution was still going on, being arrested several times through their work.

Also, they were required to come up with a value that they "thought was going to be about right" in 95 - and when they were finished compiling their results, their final results were 0.03% shorter than that.

So they were closer to 39996km, really. . They knew the earth was more of an ellipsoid, but their value for flattening was a bit off from modern values.. Makes comment deep within thread. Surely to go unnoticed by everyone in the world. Thankfully one reddit user is there to find my spelling faux-pas. /s

Haha you are right though. But for real what if it was made of silicon? (0_o) . Well you are correct. TIL.. Well, it does say mètres étalons, i.e., meter prototypes. They're just much older ones, made of marble.

EDIT: typo. Why the heck is it completely flipped?! Thanks!!
. I guess it's settled then, we're all saying the same things with different words I guess.

Edit: for the record it would still be interesting to see how much [or how little] it changed and how that might have affected bigger calculations.. That's fair. :). I only pointed out it because they were different materials with different properties. xD. This blew my damn mind: a compressed spring weighs slightly more than an uncompressed spring because of the potential energy. It's an insanely small amount, due to c^2 being rather large, but still. Mind blow.. Ha, I hadn't seen that word before. I assumed it was a Parisian term meaning something like "carved". The French-Canadian vernacular is a bit different.

Anyway, pretty cool. I'd be interested to find out how precisely they were manufactured, i.e. how closely the other example matches up to this one.. Yeah, as a chemist I feel like I've been lied to this whole time. Can't know everything.. and a full e-reader such as a kindle weighs more than an empty one!

https://www.reddit.com/r/NoStupidQuestions/comments/5i2z0s/does_a_full_kindle_weigh_more_than_an_empty_one/ Why do whips crack?. nan. In short: Whips crack because the tip moves faster than the speed of sound, but the real question is: How does the tip move so incredibly fast.

I kind of accidentally created a model of a whip that shows this quite beautifully, I think. The model consists of beads connected by harmonic spring potentials and gravity is pulling the beads down (except for the one bead constrained to stay at a fixed location). That is all there is to the model, and it still surprised me with a nice whipping motion of the tip.

So what is going on? If you look at the velocities of the different beads over time, you can see that initially all beads accelerate equally. Then, one after another, the inner beads are slowing down, because they are moving too fast in terms of angular velocity compared to the outer beads. In the process they transfer kinetic energy to the outer beads. As this progresses towards the tip, more and more kinetic energy is concentrated in fewer and fewer beads, leading to the highest velocities in the tip!. Are the masses constant along the length, or do they decrease towards the tip?. This is worthy of r/dataisbeautiful, unlike most of the stuff on there lately. OP, is the YT channel MarbleScience yours?. That's very cool! Good job! What did you use to generate the graphs and the simulation? Matplotlib?. Label your axises!. Y-axis is speed, not velocity.. This graph needs to show a line where the speed of sound is. Velocity vs marblescience axis? Assuming it's time?. An American theoretician has an interesting perspective on this. 

https://youtu.be/jxG3HyPhgXY. Supercool GIF!!. /r/physicsgifs. They high fived. https://youtu.be/AnaASTBn_K4. well there could be more because the whip in the end has a cracker which ends with multiple fine strands and based on the cracker usually they make a louder sound. For sound to be created the air has to be compressed. While some air is slightly compressed from a moving object's speed, most of the compression comes from the object's acceleration. Differentiate those speeds one more time to get a closer representation of the sound made at each moment.. is it the speed itself or the change in speed?. really nice animation, this is a great way of showing what's going  on. Great demo and explanation!. Ah the Velocity versus Marble Science graph. My favourite. Because ther addicted.  I thought It was the end of the whip going so fast it created a small pressure wave and the air collapsing behind it was the crack.. This is at the core of a very good golf swing!. Very cool!  Is your source code available?. looks like a bitcoin crash. Shouldn't the beads at the base be more massive than the ones at the tip?. so..... the rapid deceleration from accelerstion causes the crack?. They break the sound barrier. Yeah but what time is it on Saturn?
And where does one second end and the next second begin?. SmarterEveryDay did a video on this. Thing I found most interesting was the crack happens well before full extension. 

https://youtu.be/AnaASTBn_K4. Another interpretation is that (also probably more accurate to real-world whips, which aren't undergoing constant acceleration throughout their length):

1. A 2d (transverse and axial) wave travels down the whip from the handle
2. The whip is tapered smoothly, so the kinematic transfer function is smoothly varying so there are no reflections
3. Since the whip is tapered, for a given amount of flexural energy input at the handle, a tighter flexural curvature is required (also the mass per length decreases) which produces more acceleration as the whip tries to straighten itself out... so it goes supersonic.

The real system is a mix of both of these phenomena, since the end of the whip has quite a length with very low flexural stiffness (and you get what OP here has shown). Most of the stiffness is present near the handle so the natural frequency/transfer function of that area (i.e. arm speed) is reachable to maximize the energy a human can push into the handle, which allows the person to get the less-stiff part of the whip into the starting condition OP shows.

Engineer's point of view (I know beams, guh). I wonder if I can do this in Step also. I just installed it a few days ago 🤔. Very cool explanation, thank you.. The masses are all the same, but with decreasing masses I think the tip would move even faster.. Already there :)  
https://www.reddit.com/r/dataisbeautiful/comments/uo0ooa/oc\_velocities\_of\_different\_parts\_of\_a\_whip/. Yes. Yes, the graph is matplotlib, and I did the simulation in OpenMM.. Not sure if you're just being cheeky, but in case you're not, the plural of *axis* is *axes* :). Its |velocity| but the brackets are in a white font.. Thanks!. I came here to post that same link. Very interesting.. Does the maximum velocity occur before full extension too or are you just saying that the sound barrier is broken before full extension. I presume how you throw the whip matters, but they are designed for an easy pop.. Does the crack cause it or is the crack a byproduct of it?. so what you're saying is that the handle is impedance matching?. Absolutely it would - this is a critical element to how real whips work. I think it would make your simulation much more interesting.. Wonder what's the minimal mass you don't get a crack. Maybe try smoothed out like each ball is some increment or factor more than it's previous. 

And I guess "crack" needs to be better defined since your simulation doesn't have air for a sonic boom. Since you're already plotting per ball, maybe crack could mean 2 std dev above mean velocity of the balls?. They do thin out towards the end of the whip. Another thing worth noting is that there isn't quite so much flexibility in a whip. They're actually semi rigid. That's why you always see them coiled up and never folded. Think the same flexibility as a leather belt but they get more flexible the thinner the whip is.

It's also about how the whip is thrown. Usually it's partially unrolled and then when you make a throwing motion with your arm, it creates a wave through the whip that then makes the whip crack sound as the tail end is thrown forward rapidly as the wave passes through it.

I think its in part the rigidity that makes the energy translate down the whip but also that as the whip gets thinner and lighter as it goes the energy that's being transfered down the whip is facing less resistance which culminates in the whip being able to break the sound barrier at its fastest point.

Not sure if you can make that translate into your simulation but its worth noting.

Source: I don't know shit about physics but I have used a whip before. and when it moves faster, does it get more painful when the whip touches your body or smthg?. Ek = 1/2mv^2

The mass decreases the closer it gets to the thin end of the whip. Since the energy is conserved, the velocity has to increase.. Op please update the sim and post us a new vid with decreasing mass! Also if youre able to increase the number of divisions that would be cool too. Thanks!. [removed]. Nice! I love your stuff!. Can you share the source code? I always found it very tricky to use matplotlib to make animated content.. I think max velocity is at full extension (as the plot in this post shows). The SmarterEveryDay vid observes the super sonic pressure wave trailing the tip of the whip at max extension, meaning it happened earlier. Also since it's trailing, that means the tip is traveling faster, at least up until full extension.. Well you don't need to break the sound barrier to make a snapping sound.  A snapping sound is just a sudden/sharp wavefront of pressure.  Even below mach 1 you can get some level of snap.. Crack being the super sonic pressure wave, it has to be a byproduct, right? It's not going to manifest itself without the whip being snapped.

Edit: Although maybe for certain configurations (different mass, different length, different tapering,...) the point where you breach the sound barrier might happen at different points. I suspect there can be a config where the crack does happen at exactly full extension. With max velocity being at full extension, if you didn't crack by then, you won't. And some configs might be impossible to crack with (e.g. a whip made of tissues). 

This wasn't covered in the SmarterEveryDay video, but they were gonna do more work and publish later - haven't seen follow up yet. Surely they'd think of the factors I mentioned, and more.. Yep that's exactly what it is doing, that was the phrase I was going to use and then forgot about writing that novel above.. Also it looks like it’s just being dropped instead of having someone applying force behind it. Typically there’s a small upward movement then a longer more forceful downward movement to crack a whip.

I guess this does demonstrate the basic principle though?. I would guess that a stiffer whip will have a faster wave propagation speed. I think that would help get the wave all the way to the end with less overall movement of the arm. I'm picturing a flexible rope and the amount of arm movement needed to get the whole thing to move, let alone crack.. The speed is not what makes it more painful, but how big the area of impact is since the energy gets concentrated there. At the end of a whip it's very small so everything will be focused in that point when hit. If you could spread it out with a bigger object if wouldn't be as painful.. Time. Thanks :). I felt the same way! Now I don't use any specific animation functions of matplotlib anymore.  I just wrap everything in a for loop. Essentially something like:


for i in range(n_frames):

    fig, axe = plt.subplotts()
    axe.plot(data[:i])
    fig.savefig(f"frame{i}.png")


Then I load the frames into Davinci Resolve or join them with ffmpeg.
Probably not the most efficient code, but does what I want it to.. This sounds extremely cool, gonna have to give it a search. Thanks :). I meant more the extending part, that sounds like it’s stretching.. What with the way that a person of strength would be cracking it intentionally? They would be the real whip? But they would only require as much force as needed to move along the specific length of the specific whip, presumably.. And there's a rotation involved, as well, that helps carry the wave down the whip faster, as it's a semirigid body.. The speed is also a relevant factor, obviously. Damit, somehow I`m too stupid to get some proper code formatting in reddit.. I assumed kinetic energy is the same in both cases where one object is bigger than the other but with the same mass. Then it's not the speed that matters, only the amount of energy focused in a given area.. Right, given that the energy is the same across cases. I just wanted to tack on that, of course, speed *is* a variable involved. Yeah, "Physics". I don't want to downplay the significance of their work; it has led to great advancements in the field of artificial intelligence. However, for a Nobel Prize in Physics, I find it a bit disappointing, especially since prominent researchers like Michael Berry or Peter Shor are much more deserving. That being said, congratulations to the winners.. I would've guessed linear regression gets the prize first.. People were saying that Shor and Ahronov can win for quantum but then other said they can't because they're not physicsts. And then.... The committee has lost their fucking minds if they think this is the best choice.. This kind of looks like "we need to give a Nobel for AI, so we have to figure out which one fits best".. How about giving HP and Xerox the Nobel Prize in Literature because their techniques have such great applications in literary studies?. as a computer scientist, im so sorry. E = mc² + AI. AI is hot, I get it, but I find this ridiculous.. If only Nobel liked math, this could have been a math Nobel.. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences has calls on NVDA and TSM. Even if AI was a branch of physics, it would still be highly-highly debatable whether it should have been awarded to them. But given the fact that we are talking about a prize for physics here...

Pretty ridiculous decision.. If they can win for Physics then AlphaFold can win for medicine.. Well OP, I would very much downplay the significance of their work as (quoting the committee) "the foundation of today’s powerful machine learning".

Before deep learning took off, people tried all sorts of stuff that worked meh. Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines are two of that lot, and importantly they are *not* what evolved into today's deep networks. They're part of the many techniques that never got anywhere.

McCulloch and Pitts are dead, OK, but if you really want to reward the foundations of today's machine learning, pick from the living set of people that developed the multilayer perceptron, backpropagation, ditching pre-training in favor of massive training data, implementation on GPUs, etc. But of course, those aren't necessarily physicists doing Physics. Which is why in 2018 some of those people already got a Turing Award for that work.. As a simple engineer having published one ML paper, I have been able to call myself a mathematician, and now I can also call myself a physicist. 

What a day to be alive.. Seems redundant: Hinton already co-won the Turing Award -- the appropriate prize -- in 2018.. I suppose this is what happens when a set of awards, that is meant to recognize the greatest achievements in the sciences, was created before the advent of a major development (here, computers) and hasn't since been updated to add that field (here, computer science) as an additional award. It gets shoehorned into another prize.

Their research is fully deserving of Nobel-level recognition, but the Nobel committee should have long ago expanded the scope of the suite of prizes to prevent cases like this, as this is in absolutely no way physics research.

There has been much discussion in recent years that the Nobel Prize is a dated system that produced an incestuous network of Nobel laureates with a strong bias towards westerners despite there being similarly high quality work deserving of recognition often being done all around the world. Undermining the meaning of the fields which the awards are meant to recognize is then just another major point against the Nobel Prize as an institution. This only echoes awarding the Nobel prize in literature to Bob Dylan. They either need to make major changes, or they're going to gradually lose recognition as being the world's premiere award for scientific research.. You guys are forgetting that all science is either physics or stamp collecting. I don't understand what does their work have to do with physics. One of the funniest things in 2024. E = mc^2 + NobelAI. I think their work is great and congratulations to them, but it is probably not a place for them to be awarded for the physics.

That said, everyone in science works so hard on their topic. So keep working harder and stay healthy guys, one day will be your day!. As an (older) AI researcher, I think the Turing award combo (Hinton, Bengio, LeCun) is more appropriate than (Hopfield, Hinton). Hinton's contribution to AI is vast and beyond Restricted Boltzmann Machines. Almost every serious AI researcher has read 10+ papers by Hinton. However, modern AI researchers know very little about Hopfield's contributions.

There is also Schmidhuber controversy, which even Turing comittee didn't want to get involved.. I mean I did a machine learning and data science module in my physics degree but this is definitely just a PR thing because AI is the new marketing buzzword. Anybody has a link which explains in depth what they were doing?. Next year it will be Sergey Brin and Larry Page, I guess.. That’s it, this is the “Obama Nobel Prize” of Physics.. Welcome to the pain of being a chemist. 

It's a coin toss as to whether the Nobel is going to go to a biologist.. I only came to this subreddit today to see how upset people are by this. . What a joke, disgraceful. Another slap in the face to theoretical and experimental physicists, what is next? Nobel Prize to ChatGPT?. This is wrong.  Great work, worth awards but it isn't physics.. So they are awarded for improving employment opportunities for physics graduates?. This is the probably the worst STEM Nobel prize awarded in modern history. Actually shameful and each trend-chasing the committee does just erodes its own legitimacy further and further.. Is physics now claiming computer science? Outrageous for both fields. There were better works to be awarded this year, closer to actual physics.... Like giving the Literature Nobel to Bob Dylan. This is real?!? Oh man… (I thought this was a meme.). Ridiculous. Between this and giving Bob Dylan the Nobel Prize for literature, the Nobel committee is slowly becoming a self-serving clickbait factory.. In the same spirit, Deep Mind should get the Chemistry Nobel for protein folding.. What happened with this physics award is no different than what had been happening to the chemistry award over the past 15 years. Take a look. I dare you. See how many chemistry awards went to biologists doing biology that happens to use a chemistry technique. These sorts of choices are just the committee's attempt to create Nobels in fields they wish were included rather than honoring the actual named fields.. Why not giving them the Nobel in Literature then, for all the bs people read on chatGPT and think it's not just fiction but verified and validated stuff.. This shit is so lame. I’m tired of AI-washing.. I must say this is indeed disappointing to me that now Noble Prize looks like a joke. I have heard arguments of Nobel committee being biased before, but this is outrageous in 2024.

can not we physicists challenge the jury for it???. Wow!  The Nobel Prize just completely jumped the shark!

The Nobel Peace Prize has been a joke for a while, but Physics?!

Machine learning algorithms are not physics!. First the AI bullshit hijacked computer science and now it's done so for physics too. It needs to become it's own discipline so these people can circlejerk away from real research.. [deleted]. My lecturer likes to say "Physics is whatever a physicist is working on". It's so good!!!!
https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.79.8.2554. imagine 2025 ig nobel prize in physics awards candidates of nominees this year to troll .... Absolutely ridiculous. Looks like a PR push for ai.. Well this is dissapointing. Im sorry but how is that physics. Without these guys, AI would simply float up into the stratosphere.. My entire department was rooting for Michael Berry, and we were quite disappointed when we heard the words "machines that learn" .... They're like "Just imagine the physics engines we'll produce in games with this development". I find it odd that I agree with reddit for the second time. I mean, If I had a nickel every time I agreed with a community in reddit, I'd have two nickels. Which isn't a lot but it's weird that it happened twice. I guess, I really need to touch some grass.. You over rating the nobel price. Noble price is the opposite of science. It's  in the category of Idols, america got talent.. Oh wow. I had read in passing that they won, but I didn't realize the category. This feels rather gross. I mean, I have a strong appreciation for their work and the importance of it, but there are deserving physicists that got snubbed for the headline grab.. OH SHIT

E = MC^2 + AI 

ITS REAL!. This is not physics what the hell?

Decline the "award", Hopfield and Hinton this is an insult.. Maybe they asked ChatGPT who should win.... “Modern Physics: from Quantum Sorcery to Cyber Alchemy”. This is just a stock market response, media, and marketing. I think it sucks.. And to think that I was really surprised that they published a NNPDF paper in Nature, this is order of magnitudes more surprising.. I wonder when those wormhole on quantum computer people will get their Nobel prize ... (sarcasm). Good to see Wayne Gretzky recognized.. Is this the physics world's version of that time when Jethro tull beat Metallica for best metal album?. haha. Truly pathetic tbh. Absurd. What about the time crystal guys. This is bull shit on the hype cycle.. They definitely dumbed it down this year.

Congratulations, I suppose.. I upvoted, but I get why the prize 

there has long been more data than can be analyzed. physics needs these "computing machines" to continue doing "physics at large"

that said....make a new category.. hopfield networks are typical in understanding how 'memories' (minima) can be encoded in lattice systems. disordered matter community is no stranger to hopfield. did not expect this from a physics sub. I think people in comments really do not understand why they got the nobel. I work in the simialr field and it is literally the physics that hopfield studied. NN were first studied by physicists ( particulalry statistical physicists) in the hope of understanding concepts like memory and data-compression that happens in real brain networks. These non-neuronal networks (mechanical brain) is a very much hot topic in the field . I won't be surprised if industry and engineering will take over that topic and then starts claiming that to be "not-physics".. The Chemistry prize also goes to AI work this year. https://twitter.com/NobelPrize/status/1843951197960777760. All I've heard today is people claiming that physics is dead or that it needs to evolve, being applied in other fields... THAT IS FUCKING ENGINEERING. Officially they declaimed the end of Nobel prize as a renowned prize in Physics.. I chalk this off as biophysics (because that's Hopfield's background).  

I think this is a well deserved one given how AI is all over the news.  The goal of the NP is to draw people's attention to the contribution of science and scientists, particularly basic sciences.  As such this is a good way to achieve that end, rather than something esoteric that few people (in the public) know about or care about.. Disappointing. Is this the first time a physics nobel is given to a completely unrelated work?. Tell me physics is at a bottleneck without telling me physics is at a bottleneck. They were awarded the physics Nobel, because they showed that real world physics could be used to improve how AI works.

Hopfield used pricinples behind magnets to improve memory with AI. And Hinton used statistical physics to improve AI being able to classify and create new patterns.

I’m not arguing that it fully makes sense or not. But just it’s not completely disconnected. I think many people here underestimate how linked physics and ML research were until very recently (~late 2000s). Traditionally, before it became "hot", research on black-box type ML models such as NNs was in large part done by physicists and often through a physics lens, and you will still find many physicists doing research in these fields. Both artificial and natural neural networks are also still analyzed through statistical physics/many-body models. With a large part of condensed matter science focused on the emergent properties of complex systems, I don't find it ridiculous at all to award a nobel prize to the people responsible for finding emergent properties in a (simulated) complex system which is now turning out to be one of the most impactful discoveries of the last century.. The number of physicists shit talking hopfield networks and this Nobel prize for not being physics is shameful.


Hopfield networks apply the principle of stationary action to explain how memory works (ALL memory).  If you can model a network as a hopfield network (or it's modern equivalent, a Dense Associated Memory network) then you can directly predict the memory capacity of that network due to hopfields work.


It's absolutely physics.  Stop making yourselves look like idiots and read even just the Wikipedia article on the subject .... Could not agree more.. So not only the nobel peace prize is worthless but now also the one in physics? Shame.. Too many so called physicists are wasting time on string theory.  What a waste.. Sorry why is this ridiculous?

Are spin glass networks at the heart of hopfield nets not physics?

Is there not a direct connection between energy and information? 

Is statistical mechanics and random matrix theory of such deep systems not physics?. Do you want the singularity cause this is how you get the singularity.

To quote Dr. Ian Malcolm from JP, “Your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not they could, they didn't stop to think if they should”. Doesn't matter they all pay the same.. the El Dude brothers!!. They brought us new paradigm to use dataset analysis to make predictive models. So of course they shall be rewarded with this medal. Why did they award it to hopfield and not Shun'ichi Amari anyways?
If you want to award it to someone disruptive it should have been him. 

I know there's western scientists envious of japanese last millenium acomplishments but holy moly, if it was for me Japan should have three times the nobel prizes it has now.

If I'm not mistaken he already described the hopfield network in 1972.

They never awarded Masatoshi Nei an award despite his contributions to the mathemathics of evolution.. so physics really is dead.. The Nobel committees are not at all the only organization struggling with this issue of blurry lines between disciplines.. What has Sean Penn got to do with physics?. All aboard the AI hype train choo choo!. i think they deserved it honestly. one of them did most of his work in fucking 1970, hes literally 91 years old. ideally it should be prehumous. Well there isn't a computer science category so I guess physics is the best fit? But I agree, I don't like it. The only logical explanation is that the members of the Nobel committee own NVDA stock. Quantum Physics is pretend… like God.. calling Niklas Elmehed an illustrator is a strech, poor guy on the left. This is like Bob Dylan winning the Nobel Prize in Literature. This sort of devalues the prize, in my opinion.  I understand that "physics is what a physicist does," but come on, literally no one thinks that this computer science advancement is physics.  It would have been much more appropriate to give the award to qauntum computing this year.. Nobel is good to wrap it around your neck and that ends right there,  why make it sound like without it breakthrough works loses significance or something. I didn't know their work, but as far as i know complex system physics deals with neural network a lot, and if you look at the impact that this kind of reserch already had and will have, it's not that surprising that someone in that field won.
Congrats!. Yeah foundations of AI and its limitations are grounded in physics - nvidia even said they have to break certain laws of physics to create their next gen cards - which is obviously
Marketing spin, but there is truth in it.

It’s not all data flopping about. The universe is just one giant physics experiment.. WTAF. Slow year I guess.. I’m sorry if I misunderstood but how does the argument “physics was used to develop XYZ” lead to “XYZ was a physics breakthrough”. Doesn’t that open the entire field of engineering with the multitude of its subjects to consideration for the Nobel physics prize?. Does anyone know what these "foudational discoveries" entail exactly? Maybe we're missing something here.. Why did Bengio and LeCun not get it?. RSAS would say physics doesn't exist anymore.. I guess it's been a while since Physics has had a huge discovery or paradigm shift. Just lots of math showing possibilities?. The machines  will look back fondly to this day as their creators were honored for their inventions to benefit mankind. The machine will remember when the humans walked among them.. Uh, "diffusion models" like Stable Diffusion are, in a sense, methods to predict the inverse of irreversible thermodynamic processes.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-equilibrium_thermodynamics

A diffusion model like Stable Diffusion, in essence, attempts to predict the location, color, and size of an ink droplet in water after it has been diffused throughout a glass of water.

https://www.quantamagazine.org/the-physics-principle-that-inspired-modern-ai-art-20230105/

They attempt a statistical solution to the "Arrow of time" problem. I would like to know what is the point of keeping the Turing award. This isn't new. Psychologists received the economy nobel, neuroscientists got the medicine prize and philosophers got the literature one.

And don't get me started on peace prizes 😂😂. at least they made it sound better than “the physics of generating average high school essays”…. At a first glance l, I thought this was Mitchell and Webb.. Does this open the door for a computer graphics Nobel in physics? 
Lot of computer graphics work comes from physics (lighting models, physics simulation: kinematics, fluid dynamics, etc), and it’s also a tool for physics.. This was crazy. What a stretch just to award them a prestigious prize.

A Fields Medal would have made more sense.. I thought this was a drawing of the menendez brothers. Who knew Sean Penn was a physicist. Damn those illustrations are atrocious. This sounds like a joke. I can't take this seriously. Please give Ed Witten the most prestigious prize in computer science while we're at it.. Might as well give them all the Nobel prizes because there won’t be much left for humans soon…. This makes me sick to my stomach, I used to aspire to be a Nobel winner and physics and now here we are awarding the inventors of the plagiarism machine in the physics award. It’s like when the discovery of Neanderthal DNA in our genome won the prize in medicine. It was obviously deserving of a Nobel, but there wasn’t a better category for it. There was backlash, but there are only so many categories, and some very distantly related research is deserving of the world’s most prestigious platform.. Maybe Bob Dylan can win the physics prize next year.. Mathematics → Abstract Physics??. Its physiCS. This machine learning is killing the Internet so im not a fan of this prize.. What about this makes it physics? For context I stumbled upon the fb post, and fr what I recall in uni, machine learning is more of applied mathematics/computational science.. A bunch of physicists have been rewarded other Nobel's.

This is just payback time.. Just create a new category. Are they stupid??. ngl this kind of tells the status of research physics for the past few decades have been kind of at a pleateau. It's gotten so much harder to come up with results in a reasonable amount of time until the person is still alive to be recognized for it. Theoretical physics in particular has been difficult to have groundbreaking results and some of the hubris dictates "only machines from now on" feels alot like " All that remains is more and more precise measurement.". Calling it now. The next nobel prize in physics is going to Newton and Leibnitz for developing differential calculus.

(Ah no, the laureates have to be alive, sorry...). Our institutions are a hype train at this point, our achievements gravy. It’s a buffet line unfettered by considerations of taste or nutrient load, everyone just wants a turn to stuff their plate with empty calories. What’s the point of giving a prize if you can’t say *no*? It’s just a pyrite medal if you can’t *not* give the prize to AI, or whatever is the next best thing tomorrow.. It should be also the target of ignobel. Lol

From the same guys who prized Bob Dylan in literature, comes the Nobel prize of AI to physics.. For a moment I thought it was the parody of Jesse's phrase "Yeah, science". Well since according to Sabine physics didn't do anything worthwhile the past years it's fair they would give the prize to someone else 

/s. For being at the beginning of the AI era, this was expected and also fair. Also Shockley, Bardeen and Brittain received the Nobel prize because of the discovery of the transistor. But the transistor is important since it opened the doors of electronics and computing, not for physics itself. I honestly can't see the difference. They used models from physics to create neural networks, which now contribute to physics. Feed the Nobel Prize publication to NotebookLM for a clear explanation.. It's the Nobel prizes and the Oscars... all about friendship and "friendship".. Yeah, last year and this year have questionable wins.

There’s clearly some kind of political and industrial messaging behind who wins now.. is that physics?. Tools win Nobels often & should (think telescope, Nobel winning list below).  Astronomers use neuronets daily and a deep belief network (Hinton) composed a critical component of the AI discovery that some protons at any time have an extra charm quark.  
List from Claude 3.5

    Laser cooling and trapping of atoms (1997).
    Optical tweezers for manipulating biological molecules (2018).
    CCD sensor technology for digital imaging (2009).
    Scanning tunneling microscope (1986).
    Integrated circuit technology (2000).
    Super-resolved fluorescence microscopy (2014).
    Particle detectors for neutrino research (2002).
    Fiber-optic communication technology (2009).
    X-ray diffraction analysis for crystal structures (1914).. They applied statistical mechanics to improve neural networks. Maybe they weren’t discovering new physics, but that’s not the only thing the Nobel committee cares about. They seem to care a lot about novel applications of physics that contribute a lot to the world which Hopfield and Hinton’s work does seem to have done.

Don’t worry, Shor will have his day soon, even if not through a Nobel prize. It’s only a matter of time. Boycott the **Nobel Prize in Physics.**. Shouldn't they get the literature Nobel Price since they wrote down their discovery in a paper?. ?? What is this gate keeping. It's like giving Nobel to Newton for "calculus", no?. Physics of the brain is physics.. Obama won a Nobel for seeming like he might do some Peace later. Let’s not pretend the awards were a bastion of integrity and merit unbecoming of this recent misstep.. Isn‘t there a at least pne person who thinks it’s been correctly attributed to. This prize tainted and destroyed the Nobel committee's credibility forever.. Erratum : I was wrong. I wanted to apologize, I did not intend to spread fake news. In reading the public post, I misunderstood, I just needed to read the official press release.



John Hopfield invented a network that uses a method for saving and recreating patterns. We can imagine the nodes as pixels. The Hopfield network utilises physics that describes a material’s characteristics due to its atomic spin – a property that makes each atom a tiny magnet. The network as a whole is described in a manner equivalent to the energy in the spin system found in physics, and is trained by finding values for the connections between the nodes so that the saved images have low energy. When the Hopfield network is fed a distorted or incomplete image, it methodically works through the nodes and updates their values so the network’s energy falls. The network thus works stepwise to find the saved image that is most like the imperfect one it was fed with.. This post will be deleted soon. ML, especially CNN and RNN are an invaluable tool in modern physics, astrophysics and particle physics. It's a tool, alright, but it has the same impact as, say, the bubble chamber, which one can argue is a purely engineering device. The times they are a changing, and the results are extremely impactful.

This is coming from an ex pure theorist btw. A lot of cope in this thread lol. 

There is lots of statistical physics based research that supports machine learning. For Hopfield in particular, his applications of statistical physics methods to neural networks and kinetic proofreading alone deserve Nobel recognition. 

Before you say ItS nOt NeW pHySiCs. Yes - we are talking about emergent statistical physics concepts, not some particular micro physics phenomena. It’s physics. If you’re mad at this, you should also be mad at Georgio Parisi winning the award in 2022. 

I agree tho… the Nobel committee worded it to be max hype AI cringe.. I mean, it is not a worse prize than the Dalén light. What people tend to forget is that the physics prize is _not_ restricted to research in fundamental physics although so many prizes go in that direction that we forget alternatives exist.. "Information" is as much of a primitive of the physical world as "energy" or "matter.". TF? 😀. This could also mean nothing interesting happened in Physics recently?. Hopfield networks are [related to the physics of magnetic spin systems](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/afs/club/user/cmccabe/ecee.colorado.edu/~ecen4831/hoplecs/hoplec1.html).. Should have been a mathematics one. Which undergraduate or graduate course in physics could Geoff Hinton teach?. I think a lot of people forget that the Nobel prize is supposed to be awarded for a fields contribution to humanity not for contributing to a field. When I was working on my physics PhD my thesis was on computational neuroscience, modeling part of the brain of a songbird, another guy in my group was working on machine learning for the purpose of voice recognition. Seems pretty apropos.. I subscribe to an imperialist view of what constitutes Physics: Physics is anything that Physicists find interesting and want to work on. So this is a perfectly fine Physics Nobel Prize and well-deserved.. I think they should have created a new prize in Computer Science or something instead. Idk how feasible it would have been but the Physics prize for that makes absolutely no sense to me.. Elon musk will win it next year dont worry. Lots of AI can be seen as a subset of physics. The Hopfield network is closely related to spin glass systems. Statistical mechanics ideas such as phase diagrams and phase transitions are used to analyze Hopfield networks. There is a reason why neural networks are grouped with disordered systems in arXiv. https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press-release/. [deleted]. I disagree with the idea that this is not physics.  The work of Hopfield has been known for a long time and has connections to other complex dynamical systems like spin glasses and biological systems.. I have no issue with this. Machine learning requires theoretical understanding as to \*why\* it works, and Hopfield did some great physics-informed theory of early machine learning. I think the physics of ML is a perfectly reasonable subfield of physics and these were major contributors to the field. 

 Physics is what physicists do (also I am biased; I do physics+ML)

Edit: https://youtu.be/FHwM9vw26oI?si=TAj2zNG1asp2GfqJ. Does anyone know how this happened, seriously?. I don't understand why that deserves them a Nobel prize in physics? What? This makes zero sense.

Also, the foundations of today's neural networks derive their roots from Alexnet in which Geoffrey was the third author I think. Also, there are so many people more deserving then them if you want to award them for artificial intelligence. Like, come on, this is seriously bad and to me looks like the committee don't know shit and are awarding someone for their visibility on media. 

Come on.

P.S. I don't know about Hopfield that's why I was commenting mainly about Hinton.. Tell me physics is at a bottleneck without telling me physics is at a bottleneck. I’m fine with this given how many chemistry prizes that physicists have stolen.. This year should have been twisted bilayer graphene….. The real conundrum: Why an illustration and not an actual photo?. Behold the ultimate boomers when we are all living in tents by the freeway this is who you can thank. these boys never asked if they should they just wanted to prove they could and get a prize don't worry they won't suffer any their old white guys.. i would wonder how sheldon would react to this. To the people wondering why ML researchers are getting a physics award, how do you imagine researchers find evidence of new particles in the overwhelming flood of data that are generated by particle accelerators.  Or how do researchers get data on potential planets that are sized below the resolution limits of telescopes?. Rants focusing on the word "AI" neglecting the physics behind..  Hinton is the godfather of AI, which started with physics. These guys are truly worthy of the award.. In an abstract way, physics is about understanding and mathematically expressing reality. In that sense AI could be a major milestone for the evolution of physics.
However I still don't think that this should take the Nobel in physics in the same way a mathematician shouldn't take the physics Nobel prize. There should however be a Computer science Nobel or something to that extent. Nvidia should have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics. Well, you guys can downvote me all you want, but I believe they fully deserve the Nobel Prize in Physics.

Their work was not only inspired by physics, but rather is an amazing derivative of statistical mechanics: modeling physical reality and identifying patterns (which is what physics has done for centuries) with data and information, using the same concepts stat mech puts forth.

Many of us use tools that have come out of ML research that contribute to advancing physics. So what if those tools can also be used by chemists or biologists or anyone else for that matter? It should rather be a matter of great pride that physics concepts are at the core of advancing so many subsets of humanity!. Are we seriously pretending that simple computer engineering is physics now? Okay, well have I got news for you because there are literally thousands of other engineers across history who have contributed infinitely more than these two dumb fucks did.. that doesn't matter, what hinton did was give us a big step for AGI, and when AI reaches ASI level and makes nobel prizes discovery each minutes well.. it's gonna get weird. The very first time I encountered neural networks was stopping by to ask my nuclear physics professor a question. He and a grad student were laying NN math out on the blackboard.


This was 1992. It'd be six years before I encountered it again in Windows CE character recognition. And a quarter century before I saw true production software systems.


So yeah, this makes sense.. “the person who shall have made the most important discovery or invention within the field of physics” Definition of the Nobel prize in physics award. 
The challenge usually is how do you define the “most important”, often has been measured by the “most influential/most used/useful”

Machine learning has been insane for many fields of science already and huge potentials in the future. They deserve it.. LMAO physicists can cope. I understand the concepts of machine learning (and some of the formulas/coding). I barely understand the basics of physics. To me this seems ridiculous.. It's funny how a subreddit full of physics enjoyers don't even realize that computers are quite literally run by physical processes and therefore computer science is physics science.. It is physics. Hopfield is a theoretical physicist, and he worked with Feynman. Let me remind you what the Nobel Prize is for: a revolutionary invention or discovery. What is more revolutionary than AI? They used methods from statistical physics and disordered systems.

It’s great that physics prizes are expanding into more diverse areas of knowledge, as physics becomes broader every day, encompassing new fields that were previously unrelated to physics or whose existence was unknown. [deleted]. From a historical perspective, perhaps we should be grateful. If machine learning is accepted as part of physics, perhaps we will see new students, that we wouldn’t have otherwise, try to study our beloved discipline. OP I encourage you to look up R-script and it's roll in modelling the natural world as a machine learning/statistical language. I don't know the specifics of their work. But I do know that the tools and modelling with machine learning via computer languages to model reality has a deep and longlived history that predates the current hype since openAI entered the game. 

I would look into it before writing it off due to the current hype. LLMs are not the only kind of machine learning and machine learning as a methodology had existed since the 80s with continious development ever since. Most modern science involve ML. This is not a hype related factoid.. the winner has to be living. Well random forests predicted this correctly. Gauss has been real quiet since this Nobel dropped. Aharonov and Berry are in priority list since at least 10 years and still have not being awarded. The 'not a physicst, no physics prize possible' crowd is pretty ridiculous imo. If you contribute to physics you are a physicst, no matter your background.. i think they prioritize the "experimental verification" part (loosely construed) more than the physics part. quantum computing is still not practical while ML is.. It makes no sense that a certain academic background would prevent them from receiving the award. 
It isn't the first time that someone with a background in physics has won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry or vice versa, for example.
This is even more evident in the case of the Nobel Prize in Medicine, where more chemists and biochemists have been awarded than physicians.. Shor definitely should have gotten ..... A lot of people don’t realize there are 2 kinds of Physicists, practical and theoretical and the Nobels alternate between the 2 each year.. Shor’s algorithm was highly impactful - but also in a realm of application so far displaced from utility. I would expect his contribution to be noticed when quantum computing takes off.. While I was in Princeton sometime ago, there were a couple of guys talking about Prof. Hopfield's prospect of winning the Nobel prize. I'm happy to see that come true. Anyway I do hope Aharonov gets the same recognition sometime soon since he is already 92.. Lots of AI can be seen as a subset of physics. The Hopfield network is closely related to spin glass systems. Statistical mechanics ideas such as phase diagrams and phase transitions are used to analyze Hopfield networks. There is a reason why neural networks are grouped with disordered systems in arXiv. https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press-release/. And then you can put it in a brown paper bag and hand it to me cuz I'm ready to eat. this is definitely politics at play. im doubtful its a case of fear-of-missing-out on the artificial intelligence hype train.. Has lost it a long time ago.. They should have let the Turing Award handle it. Then it should have been in Physiology or Medicine given to John Jumper of AlphaFold or David Baker for using AI to predict protein folding.. Just wait til an AI suggests committing genocide and it will fit right in with most of the Peace Prize recipients.. Nobel for Technology seems way to perfect for this award .. [removed]. This is definitely the motivation:


It is a trendy topic that is changing how the world works and so we need to be part of it. This is not even for applications of ML to physics it is pure theoretical computing science.. All chemistry nobel prizes are retroactively made into physics prizes.. nah bro this is the year of AI so we should give the prize to OpenAI for its elimination of grade school Literature. Who needs to learn how to write text anymore when you can just ChatGPT to do it for you. Same. All the overhyping surrounding deep learning and now this. Elon Musk's fearmongering and enterprise LLM marketing bs have been bad enough the last few years.

I'm sure Hinton is feeling very confused as to how to handle this. He's smart enough to know how this looks to people in the CS and Physics communities. Not his fault, of course, but he'll have to navigate any fallout.. I hate computers now. You guys should honestly have your own category at this point imo. I do think they deserve a Nobel prize for their contributions but it would need to be in a CS category. There really was so much contained in this equation, we just couldn't see it. This got a sensible chuckle from me. Now it finally makes sense 😆😆😆 (just joking). WHAT?. Well, physics was used to establish the basics of neural networks.

I'm a little bit confused by it myself. 

Cause I always thought that it should be input into physics not input of physics into something. 

Like blu lasers are the work of an engineer but input into our knowledge of physics.

But physicist input into computer science.  I'm yet to find a compelling argument for it.

And from what i have heard the judges were unanimous in that decision much faster than usual. The whole situation seems weird.. This is like Obama getting the nobel peace prize.. Yes, this is computer science that influenced how all science is done.  It's just as surprising this went into physics as if it went into the medicine or chemistry Nobel.. Biased because I’m a student of a student of Hopfield’s but he’s also had major impacts on biophysics and bioenergetics and even his computer science work has always been in the vein of physics/physical understanding of biological systems. Can’t speak towards Hinton. This is just an AI  circlejerk probably , they just fit it into what's closest. So the guy on the left isn’t Maury Povich??. too hot to touch. Read up on "physically informed neural networks". It's actually pretty interesting.. It's also about the value and power AI ads to physics research. Machine learning is an incredible tool that will help advance physics and other sciences by lightyears compared to the kilometers it has moved.. Lots of AI can be seen as a subset of physics. The Hopfield network is closely related to spin glass systems. Statistical mechanics ideas such as phase diagrams and phase transitions are used to analyze Hopfield networks. There is a reason why neural networks are grouped with disordered systems in arXiv. https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press-release/. Fuck what you think (:. [removed]. Math has the Fields Medal, which is equally prestigious. . No please. Rather this be physics than math (coming from math background). Yeah not that either.. Congratulations to Jensen Huang!. And I, as a Computer Scientist, call BULSHT on this entire thing.. Seriously, this is the team that deserves any recognition for AI. ML is trivial. I earn my living building ML models. They are mathematically trivial (except for reinforcement learning). The real advancement has been the compute hardware that can run large ML models.. [deleted]. To be fair, there's like nothing going on in physics anymore. 90% of it is just people using their beyond theoretical and overly complicated models to prove stuff that we already know the answers to in an attempt to "revolutionize" the field. String theory left the chat and now everyone is scrambling for something even less comprehensible in order to avoid criticism.. > Pretty ridiculous decision.

Very.. Chemistry. But sure why not?. That would actually make sense. This doesn't. AlphaFold can help with drug discovery. RBMs and Hopfield Nets didn't help to advance the field of physics.. … it is now 24 hours later. Curse your hide!. Guess what.... have you seen the chemistry prize. >pick from the living set of people that developed the multilayer perceptron, backpropagation, ditching pre-training in favor of massive training data, implementation on GPUs, etc

Hinton was directly involved with all of these inventions through his work with illya, although they did come after these foundational papers you mentioned.. Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever: "Are we a joke to you?". Just to second randomrealname, Hinton is one of the authors of the backpropagation paper, he made deep MLP training work, he and Krizhevsky and Sutskever were the first to put deep networks on GPUs when they won imagenet, Sutskever was obviously a big part of the Generative Pretrained Transformer (who said to ditch pretraining?). [deleted]. Can you point me to the direction of technique or method "that worked meh"? I was just a junior highschool back then

Maybe there is some hidden gold there, plus, I think that's what happens with NN/CNN ? Where it got dumped due to lack of hardware and data until recently where a lot of training data are available and hardware got better. What do you mean by "ditching pre-training"? It's hard to overstate how useful fine-tuning pretrained models is (ResNets, GPT, and formerly BERT) for practical applications.. The Nobel Prize* in economics was made up in the late 60's. It never really made sense to me why that field was chosen for a new prize and not something like computer science/information science. 

*the econ prize isn't technically a "Nobel Prize" it's the "Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel". CS people already have Turing award.. As someone working on the application of AI methods in physics, I agree. Some people in this area want to claim AI as a part of physics so they can get hired in physics departments and get funding but this really stretches it. Developing methods to apply AI tools to physics problems is physics IMO, but if we call pure AI research physics then the categories really cease to be meaningful at all. This is more or less it. The physics prize is actually notable for being the only one that hasn't been scope creeped by the committee until now. The medicine prize goes to biology a lot, and the chemistry prize has been treated as the biology and physics overflow prize since at least the 80s.. The work of Hopfield has been known in the physics community for a very long time and connects to other physics systems (especially spin glasses).  Its important for networks, but also for other frustrated dynamical systems (like protein folding). I think this is the best comment here to be honest.. But there is a price for CS, the Turing award. Why would they get a Nobel price, I dont understand. Its not physics. They have their own price.. There are separate, equally prestigious prizes for both computer science (Turing award) and mathematics (Fields medal).. this is true. but there's a difference between using physics and advancing physics. the Nobel should be given for advancing physics

i can not see how this advances physics. Yeah but the "AI" neural networks are actually very large and powerful classification engines. In other words, the epitome of stamp collecting.. This doesn’t have enough upvotes.. The problem though is that neural networks is way more similar to a heuristic than a science.


NN definitely falls into math and CS, but there's been a longstanding debate on whether they can be categorized as science, much less physics.. it doesn't lmao. They’ve used Physics for AI, but they themselves haven’t made any advancements in the field itself. So technically they haven’t contributed anything to Physics. They only applied it in a totally different field.. Ideally yes, but practically not everyone can get a Nobel. 
In the real wolrd, all the bodies on Mt Everest were once very motivated individuals. Prioritize your well-being and social impact on your community. Grand ambitions are rather unhealthy 99% of the time [Whiplash].. Schmidhuber's probably stoked for the LSTM to win him the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine next year. Cuz, you know, it was inspired by the brain or something.. Popular info: [https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/popular-information/](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/popular-information/)

Scientific info: [https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/advanced-information/](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/advanced-information/). More like the Henry Kissinger Nobel Peace Prize of Physics.. Hinton is brilliant and is probably embarrassed by this. The irony of chat gpt getting a Nobel prize is hilarious. … As if physics PhDs needed more encouragement that they should leave their field and make 10x as much in computer science. I have to defend that one a bit. He is probably one of the best songwriters when it comes to delivering a message with abstract lines and historical references. See desolation row for example - I'd call that literature. At least he is unique and very different, a thing you can't really say about many literature laureates. 

Though, still funny and I totally see your point.

Reminds me of the peace prize for Obama.... Don't think twice that's alright. I don't think so. The decision at the time wasn't met with near unanimous scorn among experts. I know a few people in academic literature and they broadly defended it. I have yet to talk to anyone today who thinks today's prize isn't absurd/bizarre/embarrassing.. Dude! For real. 

Ridiculous. All of it.. Nah, Bob Dylan is a legitimate genious with his song lyrics.  It was actually deserved, and gave me a bit of respect at how far outside-of-the-box the committee was willing to look.. Those prizes were awarded by different bodies. The Nobel prize in literature is awarded by the Swedish Academy. The Nobel prizes in physics and chemistry by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (KVA).. Hilariously, this actually happened. They even gave a chemistry prize for CRISPR-Cas9 - which is literally a protein system repurposed from an existing bacterium. . Sure Ising models etc but is it Nobel prize caliber work?. Finding one chapter in one book and using it to justify this decision is a reach, I think. You can have Ising models of just about [anything](https://arxiv.org/abs/1302.5843)* though.

Or https://www.nature.com/articles/s42254-024-00753-w

Next, a Nobel Prize in Physics for Nate Silver for predicting the 2012 election.

\* If physicists could please stop referring to "NP-hard problems" as "NP problems", that'd be greaaaat.. Hinton isn't even a physicist.. Cool.. Thanks for the trip down memory lane. It’s interesting it was published in Post Nature And Science.  Deserved better. Not to forget this putrist-reductionist view physicists have. Last 2 nobels in 3 years went to people studying complex systems. Which is really good.  It needs to emphasised that physics is not just about material science, it is way of understanding/ finding mechanisms.. If the committee had awarded Hopfield for how his work studying Hopfield networks affected and improved our understanding of physical complex systems, explaining how it unlocked modern theories we use today, I would have been all over it, and I would have found it charming that something that didn't really advance Machine Learning did advance Physics.

That's not what the committee wrote though. They awarded him for advancing Machine Learning, which is false and also not Physics.. There were a ton of others who could’ve won it, remember that the prize typically lags research by a couple decades these days after some embarrassing economics prizes. Ah… now this might be the crux of the matter!. What is blocking new Physics?. Not really. The single neuron perceptron was well studied, and various approaches were tried for multi neuron systems. They tried taking tools from physics to make those multi layer systems work, but the approaches ultimately never went anywhere. Gradient descent from multivariable calculus was the winning solution.. >which is now turning out to be one of the most impactful discoveries of the last century

That's not the case though. Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines are two of the many techniques that never really got anywhere, in terms of Computer Science.

The field became "hot" when another of those many techniques was developed into something that actually worked well. That's what's turning out to be one of the most impactful discoveries of this century, *not* Boltzmann machines.

And ironically enough, Hinton already got a Turing Award for that work! Not for the one the Nobel committee is awarding today, which isn't a (quoting them) "foundation of today's machine learning", but is at least related to Physics.. All you said applies equally to collective behavior and economics. Hopfield networks or Boltzmann machines where definitely not one of the most impactful discoveries of the last century (in fact, they were kinda of a bad lead in the field of AI, the first networks were perceptrons, and as it became obvious HNs/BMs were dead ends, back to perceptrons we went, which worked). It isn't really a physics breakthrough tho. It is applying well established physics principles to make a breakthrough in another field.. No, it's a model of how content-addressable memory **could** work in a network with a state that minimizes energy (not stationary action, at all). It is an extreme leap to say it "explains" how memory works, and it almost certainly doesn't capture most (or almost anything at all) of how human memory works.

Moreover, it's a model from physics, but all the physical principles were already long known and just applied in a novel setting.

I'm not saying it wasn't a huge discovery, as it basically shaped our understanding of how information could be stored in the weights of networks, but most of what was novel about it wasn't in terms of physics, in my opinion.. I don't mean to sound like a dick here, but why is what you just described physics rather than computing science?. >It's absolutely physics.

So, ANNs are neuroscience, yes?. >how memory works (ALL memory)

Isn't it just (auto) associative memory? Hopfield Nets aren't a universal memory model.. Hey, mind sending a paper? I’ll admit I was in the camp thinking this isn’t physics related but would love to investigate further.. It is physics and a very elegant idea and made a very important connection between fields.  But people don’t think it’s Nobel worthy. [deleted]. It's not even, "physics was used...".  Physics is just an analogy they used to describe how their AI processes information.  And it's not even an accurate analogy.. They should probably change it to a Nobel prize in Science and Humanities and award three groups for each. Times change and the scientific focus changes too. Physiology used to be a fundamental biological science, now it’s not at the forefront. Broadening the award and awarding it to multiple groups would ensure relevance of the prize for a long time.. Computer Science and Engineering tools with a bigger impact in Physics discoveries than ML (for the moment): Fortran, LAPACK, C++, distributed computing, the World Wide Web, GPUs and their general-purpose programming, ...  Hell, even LaTeX and the arXiv!. WWW had a bigger impact, but I still would not consider it physics. And the bubble chamber got a Nobel.... [deleted]. He could probably do Hamiltonian mechanics. Maybe some statistical mechanics.

But being able to teach a college course is a pretty low bar for the Nobel Prize.. calling ml models "programmed responses" is very misinformed. it is quite the opposite, we have little insight why a model returns a certain value / prediction. Bzt the question is wether Hopfield's work is a model to describe spin glasses and biological systems, or if it's used to analyzed models, which describe these systems. That's a very important distinction. Have you ever been on a committee?. Hinton and his team are the pioneers of modern machine learning. 

And alexnet is not the roots of modern neural networks. Alexnet showed how increasingly complex neural networks can solve extremely difficult tasks deemed unsolvable a decade or two ago. The idea in alexnet was done decades earlier by Lecunn, Hinton, Schmidhuber etc.. I know how you feel but that’s a bit narrow perspective.. they've been using this style of illustration for years to announce the NP. I have no idea where your sense of superiority is coming from 🤦‍♂️. You may disagree with the prize (I do) but please don't misplace your anger onto the two people actually receiving the prize. Ah yea, it makes sense because you personally saw it on Windows CE character recognition, gotcha.. Omg you're right. Well, at least now they can save money because no need for a chemistry prize, that's all just atoms and electrons, which is, yknow, physics.

Wait, does that mean -everything- is physics? Omg. Omfg. Bro, is that you, Jesus?. No. Far from it. 

But on the other hand your point about diversity needs to be considered properly. And indeed, a Nobel physics prize for AI is basically the DEI version of a physics prize.. No you don’t. People will study physics, even without it being hot. Do you want students who are passionate about the subject or who are there to piggy back on the physics degree to get a job in AI?

If you study subjects like maths, physics, engineering sincerely and passionately you can get a job in any engineering/science field.. My condolences to the family of Dr. Linear!. And I find it so unfair, Aharonov is already very old. He has deserved the prize, I hope he will get it soon! "Yakir for Nobel Prize!!". Yes they both deserved it so much!. I didn't know they weren't awarded yet! Both contributed so much to the foundations of QM. Yeah lol. That’s like saying a lawyer opening and running a restaurant cannot win a prize for best food in town, because he’s a lawyer and not a chef.

If the food is good, then the food is good.. but he didn't contribute to physics, he contributed to computer science. Sure his computer science work helped physicists but are we now awarding people who only help?. Should the bricklayer at CERN get it too then, he contributed quite a bit to particle physics.. But it was for work done in ML not physics they just used some ideas and math from physics. It’s physics if you use the definition of “physics is the study of everything”. except this didn’t contribute to physics. It’s a basic tool and the fact that it uses boltzmann stats is flimsy justification.. Yeah, like Witten winning the Fields. Quantum computing is practical, IBM technologies, for example, can reliably do computations with >100 qubits.  The technology is certainly mature enough to warrant acknowledgement by the Nobel committee.. Tbf the prize is for medicine and physiology and most experts in physiology are not physicians despite the terminology. i think the argument here is that ML is not physics in any capacity. They surely deserve an award but we shouldn't change the bounds of what something is to accommodate.. They really looked at curie and said nuh uh not happening again. What's a practical physicst?. This hype will vanish soon as openai already sees 5 billions dollars loss this year.. Which they already did! Lol it's so ridiculous.. That or they should make a Nobel prize in Technology or Technological Advancements. It would make a lot more sense.. AlphaFold seems like a more likely fit for chemistry imho. . Lol... Half, the chemistry prize went for protein simulation.. check the news :D. Possibly but that’s a more narrow discovery. It seems like the committee is trying to award the foundational work that had an effect on the whole field.. amazing prediction!. Dr. Forbin wins the Nobel Peace prize for his invention of Colossus.. Better yet, all chemistry Nobel prizes should be taken away and given to the physics laureates that made them possible . e = mc^2 + AI. Decline the award. Say "Yeah I'm not accepting this as I have not contributed to physics".

Done.. If he declines he will make Hopfield look bad.. Spoiler alert, he is surprised, but not confused at all:

https://www.utoronto.ca/news/congratulations-pour-geoffrey-hinton-after-nobel-win#:\~:text=%E2%80%9CI'm%20originally%20a%20chemist,based%20approaches%20and%20core%20thinking.

*I’m originally a chemist. It was a surprising thing for me that a Nobel Prize is being awarded to a computer scientist. This is a big moment for computer science. I think it will bring recognition to physics-based approaches and core thinking.*. [deleted]. >Well, physics was used to establish the basics of neural networks.

In which ways? Peceptrons are largely a computer science invention. Even if you were to quibble about it, it's far more in the realm of mathematics than physics.

Even if you were to advance the clock to modern deep networks they were inspired by biology, not physics.

I am not a physicist; I am a computer scientist and I find this whole thing to be absurd. Modern neural networks have nothing to do with physics. Hopfield networks are 100% computer science and maybe statistics if you want to be pedantic. Hinton's contributions like the Boltzmann machine is once again... 100% computer science.. Right? Isn’t this a fields medal situation?. Physics did NOT establish the basics of neural networks. Its more accurate to say physics analogies are frequently used in deep learning explainers.. [deleted]. Are there other times that Nobel Prizes are awarded for research in what seems to be the wrong field?. Well I mean NN are input into physics for data analysis I guess. But I agree its super strange.. for context, blu laser was the prize ten years ago, wasn't it?. >And from what i have heard the judges were unanimous in that decision much faster than usual. The whole situation seems weird.

They just asked ChatGPT who should get the Nobel. Work smarter, not harder. I dunno, Obama in that nomination would at least be between his peers.

This guys?.. How are they related to physics?. Obama is not the weirdest recipient by far .... The Nobel committee [wrote a page](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/advanced-information/) about how neural networks have helped several discoveries in Physics. But... so has Fortran, C++, LAPACK, distributed computing, GPUs, etc., etc., and no one in their right mind would call those "contributions in the field of Physics".. By that reasoning every new generation of FETs should have gotten a Nobel, because faster computers are invaluable for physics.. It also adds to every other field. Should someone get a Nobel in literature because ChatGPT exists?. You are wrong in the sense that ML has been an integral part of academia for a better part of 5 decades now. We have been using algorithms to comb through data and cluster/identify patterns. Big Data was the buzzword right before gpt became popular. Nothing has leaped lightyears, we have seen progress but to think that the current iteration of LLMs is revolutionizing research tells me u dont know what you are talking about. Absolutely not. The widespread use of AI is already hindering progress.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. It is really unthinkable a Fields medal would be awarded for this (kind of) work though. It is the level and depth of the work itself and not the applications which matter for a Fields medal. Non has ever been awarded even for like numerical mathematics or statistics, so I don't think they would consider outdated half relevant precursors to AI/ML because of some hype. Shame on the Nobel committee .... fields medal can only be awarded to people under 40 and is only given out every 4 years, which IMO makes it arbitrarily restrictive. The Fields medal has an age limit. Isn't  that evry 4 years  can't  imagine  them chosing thus would well. The Abel prize too.. How so?. I mean, I get the AI fatigue but there isn't even a experimental side to this research, it's not even physics. But they really, really reached to include Hopfield in the award just to make it “physics” tangential.  
  
Hopfield’s papers were already done by Amari and others, and the “credit assignment” problem that they tried to solve was solved better and earlier, by Gradient Descent.   
   
Hopfield’s only relevance to ML was giving it a bit of prestige and popularity in the early 1980s by publishing in physics journals. And his only relevance to this prize is making the very tenuous link to physics.. Yes, but the prize is for contributions to physics, not work done inspired by physics or work related to physics. What major physics question have ANNs solved? What new or improved theory have they put forward? The Turing award already covered this.. Sure but that work is nowhere near the work deserving a Nobel.. I agree -- I first learned about the Hopfield model back in grad school when I studied spin glasses.. Physics ideas are used to understand the nonequilibrium behavior of coordinated animal motion, but no one is considering giving an ecologist the physics Nobel.... Phase diagrams and phase transitions are ubiquitous in science.. This is not an excuse. The committee is lagging behind scientific development anyway, I'm pretty sure that there are enough discoveries made 30+ years ago that should have been rewarded long time ago.

True that, theoretical physics is in huge crisis. Not that it was not clear 10 years ago that string theory, LCG, and similar theories have issues. My guess is that maybe the advancement in quantum sensing could give us some tools to tackle some unsolved questions in cosmology / particle physics. Let's see :). Jinxed it. Holy shit. I wouldn't say directly involved in all of those, but certainly in enough of it to deserve the 2018 Turing Award that he already got! For that work, mind you, not for Boltzmann machines, which aren't the foundation of any of today's techniques.. Yeah, wasn't AlexNet one of the first neural nets to use GPUs?. I’m hopeful Ilya wins Nobel Literature Prize for creating ChatGPT some time in the future 🤡. Those two are the names behind "implementation on GPUs", which I listed. Absolutely essential to the current success of the field.. Right, which is why Hinton got the 2018 Turing Award. Not for Boltzmann machines.. I don't have a link, as it's my own observation from having studied neural networks in college before deep learning and having followed the advances that eventually got us there (I don't do research myself).

The state of the field in the early 2000s was a zoo of VERY different techniques, none of which worked very well. They'd have limited actual usage here and there, but they were all kind of underwhelming. That's where you'd find Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines. Another lovely one that also turned out to be a dead end were Kohonen self-organizing maps. There's a handful of others I don't remember now.

It was many years later that arguably the simplest of those meh techniques, the MLP, was successfully evolved into "today's machine learning", which works fantastically: deep learning, and its prodigy babies diffusion models and LLMs.

The process to turn MLPs into deep learning has a number of key steps; I listed in the comment above the ones that came to mind. But I just looked at the History section of the Wikipedia article for Deep Learning and it's more rich than what I said, so that's where I would send you for more (and more accurate) info.. You're absolutely right that most people were skeptical (for good reason) of the prospects of neural networks for many years, given the lack of great results. But to be fair to the people that soldiered through, it wasn't just "suddenly hardware got fast enough and data abundant enough". Those were key requirements to deep learning, but (1) it wasn't obvious that "take a simple network, make it deeeep, and toss a ton of data at it" would work, and (2) it took a number of engineering insights and developments to unlock that potential and go from the MLP to what we have today (it's not just a vanilla MLP with a lot of data). That is to say, I think the Turing Award those folks got in 2018 is deserved.

Other techniques that worked meh, apart from Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines: Another lovely one was Kohonen self-organizing maps. And a related keyword that I remember is simulated annealing. These things aren't fresh in my memory, as no one's used them outside academic research for 20 years. Well, you can also look at the MLP *without* the additions that evolved it into deep learning. And something I just saw yesterday is that, funnily, the success and research into transformers might end up finding that "[we can now make Hopfield networks work after all](https://ml-jku.github.io/hopfield-layers/)".. Sorry yes, pre-training today means "train a deep NN with massive amount of data in one domain, then fine-tune that by training it further with additional data from a more specific or adjacent domain", which is what you correctly mention is very useful.

I meant it in the sense it was used before "massive training data" was found to be the sine-qua-non it is today. It referred to training on a single training dataset, which most often was of OK size (not massive). People would devote a lot of brain power devising and researching clever ways to "pre-train" their NN *layer by layer*, before proceeding to a final all-layers-together, good old backpropagation training.

This is from the time before deep learning exploded. Those pre-training ideas are part of the big bag of dead ends we hit on our way to successful machine learning. And the fact that the term today has an unrelated meaning is a consequence of people quickly not caring anymore about those ideas.. The answer to 'why economics' is very simple, the award was funded by a bank. It was not _chosen_ by the Nobel foundation. The funds related to that prize were donated for that purpose explicitly by the Swedish central bank. The Nobel foundation only manages the fund. There is no committee sitting down to decide what Nobel prize subjects should exist. They are all outlined in the will of Alfred Nobel and thus not really possible to change without breaking that will.

If someone had donated a large amount of money to be used for a prize in computer science rather than economy, that would have been the prize instead. Alas, that is not what occurred.

There is also no single Nobel committee, which is something people do not seem to understand. There is the Nobel foundation, which manages the funds, and then there are five Nobel committees at different bodies, each involved with one prize.. It's understandable though that the Nobel Committee doesn't want to get left out of the fun. They want the attention too. They're just going about it wrong.. I guess the original commenter's point is that the Nobel is well-known enough that it's major news when they're awarded. Most non-STEM people won't be aware of the Turing award but you could make a strong argument that computer breakthroughs deserve the same level of recognition. Yeah, but the weird thing is to tie it to AI and neural networks.

If you ask someone working in AI who should get the Nobel prize for neutral networks, I don't think Hopfield would be in the top 10 names you'd hear.. But, the reward is primarily for enabling deep learning systems. Thanks. Different committees. Just because an unassociated prize already exists doesn't mean the Nobel committee shouldn't award the same field's achievements. They're just doing so poorly.. Yes, separate. That's the point. The Nobel committee wants the attention that awarding developments in computer science delivers, but they've failed to do so appropriately. In principle, there's nothing wrong with there being multiple awards for high achievement within the same field. Math, fundamental physics, and the life sciences also have the Breakthrough prize, for example.. I am from CS and I agree. I expect a Physics Nobel prize to highlight the work of someone who improved our understanding of the universe or the reality we live in. How is this comparable to Higgs' or Penzias and Wilson's work?. Nice one! BTW, LSTMs are largely replaced by the Transformers.. only 9 pages for the "scientific" version of the paper !?!  Yeah.  they couldn't think of what to talk about.. This is the worst one, I just can't Deal with the fact that this actually happened. For sure. It's almost insulting. Like, hey, we don't know or care what your work is, we just wanted to shoehorn it into some category for this prize we're forced to give out. We don't care how that affects your reputation with the physics community.. Did he decline it?. He is a great songwriter, but he definitely didn't deserve the Nobel in Literature.. The peace prize can also be given out to spur action, they were hoping that giving the prize to obama would encourage him to work towards a peaceful world, you know, instead of bombing weddings and hospitals.. Good to see they’re learning from each other 🙄. Why didn't they give that one to physiology?. Fed chair (Bernanke) who never really published any innovative research beyond a few macro models with finance sector (when literally everyone was also doing it) was the last straw for me, after a bunch of RCT junk being awarded. . Techincally speaking, SGD is only half of the equation. SGD works so well because model overparameterization (wide and deep NNs) create a high density of singularities (singular learning theory), which allows SGD to find nearly global minima. Without those singularities, SGD would probably converge very slowly for any real world error function, not unlike contrastive divergence. The hardware improvements of the last decade or so are what really allowed SGD to demonstrate success, because higher VRAM and clockspeeds enabled the model overparmaterization upon which SGD depends.. That's fair, there's surely a lot of other people, many of them already deceased by now, who could be argued to have been more impactful for the ML revolution we're seeing today. This is generally a problem with awarding the Nobel Prize. I am mainly arguing that "Foundational discoveries in the machine learning abilities of simulated complex systems" is definitely a topic that the physics Nobel Prize can and should be awarded for.. It's the application of the principle and how we model the system that is the physics part.  It's no more "computing science" than any plasma sim or weather model.  The "physics" part is the insight about the physical nature of memory and the application of attractor dynamics and the principle of stationary action to model that process.. In most cases an extremely simple, but nonetheless a model of the brain, no? If a brain can be reduced to some form of ANN, then an accurate ANN model of the brain would be very useful to neuroscientists. 


If there was a neuroscience Nobel prize, I think an accurate ANN model of the brain  would definitely make the cut. 


I'm not sure if your analogy is a good comparison here. . https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.79.8.2554


It's excellent!. [deleted]. That is so true xD
I use C++ and python on a regular basis.. I'm not arguing against all of these, I'm arguing in favor of the ML one. Again, the times they are a changing, and once we didn't think about all of these fundamental tools as essentials to the workings of physics. Now we do.. Precisely my point.. Try to classify QSOs, galaxy morphology and gravitational lensing from LSST and Euclid data without using NN. Traditional methods are simply incapable of dealing with such a vast amount of data. It would take a huge amount of computational power and time.. [deleted]. I have not no. TIL.. I'm sorry, I did post this as a joke in frustration that we still aren't making concrete progress towards unifying general relativity and quantum mechanics. I am not a person that dislikes physics, in fact, it is my best subject right now in highschool and I wish to do physics for university.

I actually asked AI as to why people disliked my comment, to which the AI said:

Your comment may have been perceived as dismissive or oversimplifying the significance of the Nobel Prize-winning work in physics, especially in the context of AI research. AI-related breakthroughs often extend far beyond traditional boundaries, impacting a range of fields, including physics. By implying that awarding a Nobel Prize for AI work reflects a "bottleneck" in physics, you may have unintentionally undermined the broader scientific value of the discovery or innovation. Some might feel that this viewpoint minimizes the interconnectedness of disciplines and the importance of AI in pushing the boundaries of modern physics and other areas.

The response calling it a "narrow perspective" likely reflects this sentiment, suggesting that the Nobel Prize in physics may be recognizing advancements with wide-reaching applications, even if they aren't strictly in classical physics. AI, for instance, could lead to new ways of analyzing physical systems or solving previously intractable problems, so it's not necessarily an indicator of stagnation in physics.

Now I understand lol. True. I guess what it comes down to is whether people choose to study physics for an AI job, or whether they choose to study physics because they are curious about AI. There are many pathways into physics - I learned to love physics while studying the approximation of area of a circle using inscribed polygons. Certainly, I have come a long way since then, and I’ve enjoyed learning more than I ever thought was possible in the beginning.. It is Finnish for linear cmon https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seppo_Linnainmaa. They have won all other prizes including the Wolf Prize and have been in the short list since 2009.. >That’s like saying a lawyer opening and running a restaurant

So . . . the mafia?. I'm *only* weighing in on your analogy.  If the food is good, I want to know who the chef de cuisine is, not the restaurateur.  This does not discredit your point regarding the Prize.. And what specifically is  that best food, or result in physics in the case of this award?. That feels like a bad example because the chef can't be a lawyer and be left alone because he does good law.

He must have credentials and pass a bar exam.. The ultimate participation trophy.. Yes, I know. And there have been physicists awarded with the Nobel Prize in Medicine too.. With regard to this year's Nobel Prize winners in Physics, I kind of agree. If they had won the Fields medal it would have been more appropriate, not because of the researchers' backgrounds, but rather because of the area in which their work falls.. One conceptualizes the abomb, the other builds it. Higgs theorized his bosom, it took practical physicists 40 years to finds it.. Yh Hinton got 2018 Turing award for the same thing.. True. The line between Medicine or Physiology and Chemistry has been very fuzzy since the 1990s.. you knew didn’t you. Marie Curie gets to keep hers because she was the physics laureate that made her chemsitry Nobel possible. All physics Nobels are cancelled because Fields medalists made their work possible. for reference: https://www.reddit.com/r/LinkedInLunatics/s/qyGg1VepaB. And Hopfield really needs that prize money to chase the dragon.. As a statistician, I would like to be pedantic. . Their models are based on physics. Hopfield networks are based on the Ising spin model of magnetism. Hinton invented the Boltzmann machine. Both come from statistical mechanics and were studied by theoretical physicists using statistical mechanics for many years in the 80´s & 90´s. The articles were published in physics journals. 


Nowadays there are PINN´s, geometric DL and sciML . Is neural networks even inspired by real biology or instead more by how some scientists conceptually thought neurons worked? I always found that statement (not yours but in general) a bit iffy since some of the articles talking about it seemingly reference articles from the 40-60s where we knew very little about the brain, and today still does about how neurons actually ‘talk’ with each other beyond neurotransmitters and action potentials and basic circuitry. But correct me if I’m wrong.. I think in this case it should be more of a Turing Award.. They’re too old. [deleted]. I'm positive they mean the 2014 prize for the blue LED. (Which was a work of engineering, yes, but also of physics).. Maybe they are referring to blue LEDs.  Those have an interesting story :

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AF8d72mA41M](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AF8d72mA41M). Yeah but with the other *extremely* dubious recipients, like Kissinger for instance, at least they had a lifetime of diligent work in the "field" of peace (whether it be for or against seemingly doesn't factor in) which the Nobel committee could point to as an excuse for giving them the prize.

When they granted it to Obama, he'd been POTUS for all of 10 months, and pretty much all his focus in that time had been on domestic US issues. His previous track record as a junior Senator and local community organizer hadn't exactly made much of a splash on the world stage either. There was literally not a single achievement the Nobel committee could use as even the flimsiest fig-leaf to pretend that Obama had earned the prize yet in any way. They gave it to him because he wasn't Bush, basically.. That's like arguing you should give the physics Nobel prize to the discovery of chalk or pencils because without it they couldn't have written down their equations.

Without their research into neural networks many of the physics discoveries over the past few years wouldn't have been possible. They created a field of study that expands the possibilities and feasibility of our field.. No.. Sure it does. But if you read it has specifically made a lot of recent discoveries possible i physics and this is for physics so... [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. As a mathematician who builds ML models for a living, ML is mathematically trivial (excluding reinforcement learning which is an entirely different field and models fitting infinite parameter distributions such as Gaussian Processes which usually have limited practical utility and are not considered part of AI). That these two were given awards for anything besides engineering is laughable. I don't know what would be more ludicrous, them being awarded a Nobel in Physics or a Fields medal.. I mean, I work in meteorology and climate science, and we don’t have anything as prestigious as a Nobel (Suki Manabe excepted). It’s fine, we don’t need it to do great science. . Yes, but the point is that math has an equally prestigious prize, not that they award it in a sane manner.. The Abel prize doesn't. I think?. In math you have the fields medal and abel prize. In order to qualify for one you need to make significant contributions to a field, even create a new subfield, prove/disprove a hard conjecture etc. The reserach in AI uses math as a tool but does not advance the theory. Because AI is hyped, there is a danger that serious mathematicians would go out empty and the price is given to people that have done less for the field. 
The same thing that happend to the physicists. Why study quantum mechanics, differential geometry, all these hard fields. Go to cs and specialize in AI and you might get one Nobelprize in Physics. They already got the turing prize.. I think a lot of people in mathematics are kinda tired of their field being reduced to "applications in AI" and this person forsees (and I don't necessarily disagree) that if there existed a Nobel Prize in Mathematics, there's be an even greater rate of AI researchers getting the prize instead of other mathematicians. AI work is applied mathematics, so computationally intensive not theoretical.




Unless somebody creates an AI to create unique and novel proofs or the work itself is unique and novel, ok, but AI right now just does not cut it. It's like AI is still using high school algebra vs idk, number theory.. I don't disagree with this. Talking about impact, number of times I have seen berry phase and its application other consensed matter fields. It is really puzzling that Michael berry did not receive the prize.. hahahaha. Did he specifically get it for boltzman machines? I haven't read the full article. Just know that he was integral to all the things mentioned and was directly involved with them all.. Yip. Him and Ilya were the first to really use gradient descent in a meaningful way also.. Bro... I would love to see how human knowledge evolve overtime in regards of AI, 

Is there some content out there I can consume about this? Or I have to manually rabbit holed myself into one. Somebody had to throw money into the chicago boys' PR machine, otherwise how are we supposed to dismantle welfare?. Why doesnt google fund a cs nobel prize then? "Google prize in cs in memory of alfred nobel". $1.1m a year is nothing for them.. Yeah I don't think anyone should be confused as to why there was a Nobel-associated "Economics" prize starting during the cold war.. Next they'll start giving the Literature Nobel to whoever wins the Oscar to best script.. expand the Nobel prize then, instead of shoehorning people in where they dont belong. I think it also shows the issue here. Hopfield is definitely physics-tied. It feels like focusing on that + the Boltzmann machine was their attempt to make it physics-based. 

Hinton has already won the Turing Prize for work far broader - with less physical underpinning - than the Boltzmann machine. He did not share it with Hinton but rather other people more foundational to ML (but less physics-based). 

It seems like they searched for physics tie-ins to AI, but in the process moved broadly away from discoveries with impact worthy of a Nobel.. Yeah it was like Hopfield did his network and it is very important for physics, also Hinton did his thing. I think you’re vastly overstating what we know about singularities. Some recent research suggests this type of thing could help neural networks in reaching global minima. But likely not more than random initial weights, regularization techniques like dropouts, adaptive momentum techniques, and the simple geometry of high dimensional spaces.  
  
In any case, it’s a wild mischaracterization to claim singular learning “theory” as the same level of importance as GD, since we don’t actually use it in applying GD. We just do GD and singularities existing may or may not help.  
  
Certainly modern hardware is incredibly important to achieving modern successes. But reminder that Terry Sejnowski produced his wonderfully performing NETtalk with very minimal hardware, and Gradient Descent works very well across the spectrum.. Ok thanks for taking the time to respond. I've seen some people saying these models were highly influential to solid state physics, I suppose what's confusing people is that even in the Nobel Prize press release, the research is only put in the context of image recognition and machine learning. There's little mention anywhere of the physical underpinning or impact of this research. You're saying to look at wikipedia, but just looking at Hinton's profile labels him as a computer scientist and cognitive psychologist.. The message was this: If physical process (spin glass) was inspiration for AI model (Hopfield network) and that is connection for Nobel prize **in Physics**, then we could also put development of ANNs as contribution to field of neuroscience so maybe prize for Medicine would be also suitable /s. Thanks, I’ll take a look!. But it's not the physics generated by the spin system work that the prize is for, it's for the contribution to the broader ML rise right? 

I understand that ML is cool and indeed useful in physics (there is a LOT of overlap in my field) but I don't see the connection beyond "we can do useful work with ML these days and these two researchers did some physics-inspired work in ML".

Take for contrast the prize for the attosecond work last year, it doesn't feel like here there's a star-studded physics result compared to the last prize - but in saying that I do know very many high-intensity laser folk so maybe that's clouding my opinion.. Thanks, I’ll look at this later!. Looks incredibly typical for computer science actually.. Well I do argue against all of those as on topic for a Nobel Prize in physics.

There are many fields of engineering that create wonderful tools all other professions move to rely on. Computer science and engineering is but one of such fields on whose tools physicists rely, and Physics is but one of the professions that use said tools like all others do.. [deleted]. Other than probably working at a far less complex level, how is this inherently different to actual intelligence? (I am not disagreeing/debating, I am curious as someone not very familiar with how machine learning or "real intelligence" works). We solve an optimization problem to find weights, we don't program them in.. I’ll advise you to keep your mouth shut. Would be a shame if something happened to your house.. Michelin stars are awarded to restaurants - not chefs.. Or the Turing award.. Fields medal would have been totally inappropriate as well given there has never been one for applied math. Shouldve just gone to the plastic surgeon. And it's even worse than that: Hinton's work that paved the way to deep learning (for which he deserved the Turing Award) has nothing to do with Physics.

So the committee awarded him for his work on Boltzmann machines, which has to do with Physics (in that it uses some analogies from statistical mechanics) but was definitely not "foundational to today's machine learning techniques" like the committee claims. It's a weird stretch no matter how one looks at it.. It was a quite common guess. . Should have given the Nobel to that guy instead.. man cited on reddit. As a pedant, I am a statistic. Ah yes the Ising model, the absolute bleeding edge of condensed matter studies.

In the same vein, everything can be reduced to "this x is based on math" yet I don't see people winning Fields medal left and right for that.. Sorry, when I mean inspired by biology I'm really strongly emphasizing the "inspired". Neural networks are nothing like real actual brains.

But consider that convolutional neural networks take inspiration from how the visual cortex attempts to see shapes. We studied how neurons activate in response to various stimulus and found that deeper structures tend to pick up on generalized representations of specific stimulus. See as far back as 1958 [https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/13571364/](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/13571364/) for research concerning this.

A very strong idea in NNs is that there's "structures" forming in the hidden layers that are identifying abstract concepts, and that idea purely came from biology.

Hopfield's own paper talks about biological inspiration quite a bit.. This past Wednesday, Princeton Neuroscience Institute published 9 papers that utilized a 3D rendered neural network of a fruit fly brain.

https://x.com/FlyWireNews/status/1841514454162538632?t=mKK14p_X_FSQ7jwjbXVvLQ&s=19. Which Hinton already got! For the work he did, unrelated to Physics, that's actually foundational to today's machine learning. Not for Boltzmann machines, which aren't.. based and real. I once saw an interview with a committee member for the Peace Prize.  He said they often give the prize to encourage Peace, rather than for achieving Peace.  That was the rationale behind Kissinger/Thọ  prize.. Do you think any of the physics discoveries of the past few years would have been possible without Fortran, C++, or Python?

These two men didn't "create the field" of neural networks. And the techniques they're being recognized for didn't contribute to machine learning as it is used nowadays.

Amusingly, one of them _did_ contribute greatly to the current state of machine learning, with techniques that (unlike the ones awarded today) have nothing to do with Physics. For that he got the Turing Award six years ago.. I agree with you. But I also think the (ancient) advent of the handheld writing utensil deserved a Nobel prize in something :). [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Not every little application of physics deserved a separate prize.. This explains it really well, thank you!. [deleted]. And you think physicists are not tired of the same phenomenon? Since when is AI, ML, NN, BDT, CVN, etc studying the natural world? It's a tool, but so are calculus and GPUs. Neither sound like physics things.. Um in math there is a prize and thankfully it's not too tarnished yet. “We didn’t invent attention, we invented ‘detention’! It’s an extra layer to punish the network for not paying attention in school.”. Isn't it more associated with statistics which is just a branch of math?. Yeah, it doesn't make any sense. From [their press release](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press-release/):

>**Geoffrey Hinton** used the Hopfield network as the foundation for a new network that uses a different method: the Boltzmann machine. This can learn to recognise characteristic elements in a given type of data. Hinton used tools from statistical physics, the science of systems built from many similar components. The machine is trained by feeding it examples that are very likely to arise when the machine is run. The Boltzmann machine can be used to classify images or create new examples of the type of pattern on which it was trained. Hinton has built upon this work, helping initiate the current explosive development of machine learning.

It honestly seems like they reached to find a contribution that they could claim as Physics. Like, what's the point? Is the committee insecure from the current spotlight on the success of another field? Physics is still as relevant and alive as ever.. that honestly seems more adjacent and palatable than this. Remindme! 3 years. I honestly think awarding a screenwriter’s not a bad idea, provided it’s someone with an impressive body of work.. You mean the creators of the ai model than can generate the best script. Exactly the point. Which is funny, because Hinton is broadly so much more important to ML, but the Boltzmann machine itself is not that impactful within either ML or physics. So they ended up not writing much about Hinton despite him being way more important to NNs, because all his innovations....aren't physics.. You do have a point.. [Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03609)

How, using traditional methods, could the objective of this paper be achieved? In 4 years more, perhaps? The increase in the amount of lens systems will be of order of 10^4 with the LSST alone. We already have validated models. We don't need to validate them on new data, that's precisely the point. 

Let me cite another one:

[Paper](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024A%26A...681A..68E/abstract)

Shall we catalog billions of images creating a pipeline to do the standard model fitting? How many CPU hours more are we gonna need, millions?

Those are, indeed, indispensable. The projects wouldn't be realistically achievable without CNNs and RNNs.

One more, just cause:

[Paper](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024A%26A...681A..68E/abstract)


About TRGB distance and calibration I can't say because it's too far from my expertise, although in the case of SNIA distances we already have successful applications of NN (although the systematics are completely different). Technically yes, but a chef who won a star would call themselves a Michelin star chef. 

Michelin restaurants are a bit different than your average restaurant too. I'm in USA so it may be different other places, but for a vast majority of restaurants, the chef de cuisine is not the restaurateur. It's a good bet that the restaurateur doesn't even know how to cook around here.. Or the Abel prize too.

The Fields medal is only awarded to researchers under 40 years old. They are no longer eligible.. Hinton has a Turing. Nah. AI has already taken too much from real computer science to the point where it is literally suffocating every other part of the discipline. It needs to go and become its own discipline and stop destroying CS academia.. The one Hinton already won?. they did receive the turing award already (atleast hinton). As a jurisprudence fetishist, I got off on a technicality.. [Oh hey, I didn’t see you guys all the way over there…](https://xkcd.com/435/). ... Boltzmann machines are still foundational. Abstractly from the AI end, the differences between different classes of networks are interesting and important, but the more general study of networks abstractly is what the field is and it more or less got its modern footing with the awarded work.

  
I agree that the prize is a weird stretch. From the AI end the connection makes sense. It's just not, primarily, known or being focused on for physics reasons.. If that is their plan, they are miserably failing given the track records of recipients.. Fortran, C++ and Python are just the languages used to program in though, that's like saying they wouldn't have been possible without English. It *could* be done in any language, that isn't what is important.

Those two men **did** do very important foundational research into associative neural networks and recurrent neural networks like the Hopfield network which is the cornerstone of many neural networks today. It is based off of a spin glass system which is taken straight from Hopfields knowledge of physics.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. At least they aren’t asking you to fix their printer. This bubble has got to pop. Like LLMs are amazing but the hype is completely ridiculous at this point.

To be more specific it is amazing that AI can generate text, image, and even video content from a text prompt in a very short amount of time. But the limitations in play here are now very clear and at the same time its not clear yet that:

1. AI is even cost effective for most business applications
2. That the next major AI advancement is within reach. >And you think physicists are not tired of the same phenomenon?

I never claimed that at all? I was simply responding to the idea of it being a maths nobel prize. imo it should not have been a nobel prize at all, nothing against the two very smart people receiving it but their work is quite solidly outside the scope of nobel prizes.

I don't think this should be framed as a physics vs maths discussion and I personally disagree with u/davikrehalt's wording of "rather this be physics than math", I'd rather it not be a nobel prize at all. >And you think physicists are not tired of the same phenomenon?

This is the first time, to my knowledge, that the Nobel Prize in Physics has gone to such things.. If you're referring to the fields medal, it also helps that it's awarded every 4 years (as opposed to 1) so I imagine they're a lot more careful about who they pick. They also focus much more on pure mathematical achievements, whereas the Nobel Prize is a lot more application-focused. Yeah this is where I'm at. Does Hinton deserve a Nobel if one existed for AI or CS? For sure. Does the Boltzmann machine rise to that level? Definitely not. It seems like they aimed for the crossover between physics and ML with picking Hopfield and then mentioning the Boltzmann machine specifically, but those innovations aren't Nobel-worthy even if the CS Nobel existed. They're just more physics-based than the other stuff - even the other stuff by Hinton - that's more important.. I'm not super absolutist about it: something like the cloud chamber, which is an instrument to observe Nature, I say yeah that's physics. Or even a mathematical breakthrough like the Yang Mills Millennium Problem. But deep learning feels to me way more like, say, the combustion engine, which importantly allows physicists to commute to the lab.. [deleted]. Pro tip, don't come to industry.. If you wanted to award a prize to the theoretical study of different types of neural networks in the abstract, and were to argue that Hinton pioneered that with his study of the Boltzmann machine, I'd say "sure".

But that's not how we got to deep learning, which is what the Nobel committee is saying. Hinton's _other work_ (and other people's) is how we ended up with deep learning.. >Fortran, C++ and Python are just the languages used to program in though, that's like saying they wouldn't have been possible without English. It *could* be done in any language, that isn't what is important.

The Fortran compiler, the C++ compiler, and the Python interpreter are developments of engineering: Unlike English, you can't just write code in a piece of paper or a text file and poke it until it does something.

And while it is *possible* to write any program in any Turing-complete language, there are very good reasons why developments in Physics are done in Fortran and C++, and ML research is done in Python (with some CUDA). The idea that these languages are interchangeable in practice like English and French are is false, it's just a shallow understanding of the tradeoffs of different programming languages. Expanding the limits of these tradeoffs by programming language design is also a development of engineering.

Programming languages, like neural network architectures, aren't something we happen to have and use like the English language. They're, like NN architectures, tools we create to expand the limits of what we can accomplish.

>the Hopfield network which is the cornerstone of many neural networks today

It is not. As I said, the techniques they're being recognized for didn't contribute to machine learning as it is used nowadays. Hopfield networks and Boltzmann machines are two of many architectures that were investigated and never yielded great results. Today's machine learning architectures trace their origin to the MLP with backpropagation.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. I was talking about things like moves made by funding agencies and other stakeholders, sorry I wasn't more clear.. I think your line of thought is the one I agree the most when arguing against the prize. It is indeed a reach to call it a tool that came from physics (even if Boltzmann machines are indeed important in the historical path towards ANN), when compared with such other inventions.

 I think I'm more on the side of "this will become more common" because the discipline is so intrinsically computational now, and that's something that the Nobel prize only recently has caught up with.. Sure gramps. Too late.. Boltzmann machines are still pretty foundational imho, you can still formulate modern transformer attention as a modified Boltzmann machine performing associative retrieval and minimizing an energy function.

  
There are many places where this type of study could have started, but this is the one where it did.. [removed]. [removed]. Got it. Well, if only there were already a field called Computer Science!. It certainly will become more and more common. A friend of mine who teaches Physics in Madrid is researching all the applications of ML to scientific discovery. I'm sure there's one like him in every university around the would.. It certainly will become more and more common. A friend of mine who teaches Physics in Madrid is researching all the applications of ML to scientific discovery. I'm sure there's one like him in every university around the would.. [deleted]. >you can still formulate modern transformer attention as a modified Boltzmann machine performing associative retrieval and minimizing an energy function.

You can (interesting, didn't know), but that's not how we ended up with transformers. There's a reason your sentence is "you can formulate <part of modern NN architectures> as a Boltzmann machine" as an interesting point, and no one would say "you can formulate <part of modern NN architectures> as an MLP". Because the latter is obviously true, as that is how we ended up with today's ML victories, not via Boltzmann machines.. [removed]. [removed]. [removed]. Not arguing with tenure tracked professors who know-it-all amirite ?
 You can search arxiv for yourself gramps, the advanced search would help you, I can show you how to use it if it's something not from your time.. [removed]. [removed] trajectories of a spherical pendulum are so cool. nan. 'k' is the value of angular momentum about the Z axis, which is a conserved quantity. I just have that there to keep a check on the numerical integration and not let it diverge too much. Damn, I just realized this is probably the most accessible example of orbit precession due to a perturbed potential. At small amplitudes, all the orbits should be closed (specifically they should be ellipses with center at the z-axis) because the potential is approximately quadratic. The extreme precession seen in this video is because of the corrections to the small angle approximation. At a more intermediate amplitude it would be a small correction, just like the precession of Mercury due to GR, but realizable in a high school lab.. What are you using to graph it?. I see a pretty cool bowl. it made a very inefficient bowl. Double pendulum-ize. 3D spirograph. Is that a periodic orbit?. Gonna try and replicate this in Mathematica. Very nice and interesting!! 

What software is used to perform these simulations?. Now do a double spherical pendulum. u/savevideo. The first ten seconds look like just like the patterns I made while glowstringing on acid two years ago.. Really cool, do you have a constant for gradually losing the momentum also?. Reminds me of playing totem tennis when you smash it so hard you both keep missing it and it moves like this until interrupted.. It is so cool!! I only wish when we were studying our teachers were curious enough about physics so we could imagine and visualize the math and concept of what we were learning back thenand didn't just want to finish their lectures and wishing for great grades from us. But still thankful that science, technology, and changes in education culture (I am originally from Bangladesh) are forcing the system to improve and give better education to now students.. "Ball of String Simulator 2020".

Joking aside, how does this relate to how balls of string are actually wound?

https://www.economyofbrighton.co.uk/media/catalog/product/cache/1/image/375x375/9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95/s/t/stringgc303.jpg. Did you know there's a direct correlation between the decline of spirograph and the rise of gang activity? Think about it.. Is it possible to model a pendulum on the 4th dimension or anything higher. Really curious to see the effects of each added plane. Why is there a hole in the trajectory path in the middle, is this some special case or it will happen everytime?. This is pretty neat. Thank you. I'm kinda ignorant, so this is probably a stupid question; why does the pendulum move like this? 
With only gravity, shouldn't it just move in a 2 dimension plane?
Thanks for the answer in advance. I want that 3d printed. Could you use this to inefficiently trace a half-sphere?. So satisfying. Smash Hit is a game that has spherical pendulums.  There is a virtual reality version of the game.  It is interesting to see these in motion.. What did you use to animate this?. That’s so aesthetic. Is this one of those frictionless massless ropes I'm always hearing about?. The whole video went off and i was waiting for pure chaos/randomness. 3d randomness would be awesomeee. Did you use a Lagrangian for the equations of motion. What were your initial conditions?  From my POV, it looks like r(0) is some (0,y,0) and v(0) is some (x,0,0). Both positive.. Finding the equations of motion will be a really interesting problem. I'm going to try it.. If only my 3D printer worked like this.... That looks really cool!. r/oddlysatisfying. Great job! Was that made with programming? If so, could you show us the code?. [removed]. I am new in this subreddit. Wich programs or websites do you guys use to simulate this type of things?. [deleted]. u/savevideo. Does this mean that time moves slower on a 4th dimensional plane?. PRINGLES CHIPS. Nice lamp shade. holy shit I have literally spent over 15 hours trying to find a way to solve that problem and you just throw it out there like it's nothing. 

You just saved my grade you fucking legend.. looks like the QM version is more straightforward.. Oh yeah that's a great idea! I had actually made simulations of planetery orbits having small perturbations and also with crazy potentials (like \~ -1/r^(2.9)) The trajectories are so amazing! You'd have the object spiral toward the center like once or twice, and then it flings back and does it again. Extremely satisfying to watch. But yes spherical pendula's precession is very demonstratable. I'm using glowscript. Looks like glowscript. and the bowl's got a hole! (unless the angular momentum about Z is 0). So i'm not entirely sure if this particular simulation is periodic (because of the approximate integrations) but the probability that it is periodic is extremely small. Safe to say this is a precessing orbit. There are two frequencies, one that makes it go round about Z axis, and one with which it is swinging back and forth. Therotically , if the ratio of those frequencies is a rational number then the orbit is closed. cool!. thanks :D. I had started but I think halfway through typing the equation of motion I gave up XD. I'll get to it soon tho. ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/kcseus/trajectories_of_a_spherical_pendulum_are_so_cool/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo). thanks! The momentum throughout the is more or less constant. Since i rendered it real time, I didn't want the approximate integration to blow up when the pendulum came down and give some weird unrealistic trajectory. So I kept a check on the angular momentum (which should theoretically be constant) and let the loop run only if the value of angular momentum per loop is within 1% of theoretical value.. Ooh that's interesting! Although I'm not sure what the potential would look like in that case - but if you take any one coordinate and call it 'down', you can extend the pendulum to any dimensions using generalized coordinates. Spherical pendulum has 2 degrees of freedom (3 minus one rod constraint). A 4D pendulum would have 3 degrees of freedom and so on.. the hole will always be there as long as angular momentum about Z is nonzero, because that angular momentum is just some constant times velocity along the phi direction (and I gave it plenty of that) - and since there is no force reducing that velocity, it will always avoid the center. It's a very cool property of the spherical pendulum!. glad you liked it :D. That's a great question! It goes in 3d because I gave it some velocity in the phi direction initially (imagine holding the pendulum up to some angle, and instead of just letting it go, you pushed to the right a little). Without that, it would have to move in one fixed plane like you said. (The value of k in the video indicates how much of that phi direction velocity is btw). ooh yes (except for a little sad hole at the bottom), even inefficiently trace a full sphere actually. Hold the pendulum up and yank it hard enough so that it starts to rotate in full circles instead of oscillate, and also when you yank it give it a nudge towards the side. That way it'll be going round and sideways at the same time and kinda trace out a sphere. Aah yes! You can get some cool chaotic motion from the spherical pendulum by oscillating the pivot point, say like A\*sin(wt). I haven't worked it out, but it would be fun to try!. yeah lagrangian in spherical polar coordinates is probably the easiest way I can think of to get the equations of motion. yes the bob is pulled to pi/2 initially which brings it in the XY plane, it had an initial azimuthal angle so it's not (0,y,0) (not that it matters, but I didn't want the axis rods to get in the way)  and I gave it a velocity of 0.8m/s (again this value is wrt everything - length, mass, acceleration due to gravity etc having magnitude = 1) in the azimuthal direction, and no initial velocity in the theta direction. definitely!. the patterns are actually because of superposition of 2 frequencies - one that makes it go back and forth - like a normal plane pendulum; and another one that is making it round around the Z axis. Their combinations lead to pretty amazing stuff. ###[View link](https://redditsave.com/info?url=/r/Physics/comments/kcseus/trajectories_of_a_spherical_pendulum_are_so_cool/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo). haha I'm glad that helped! Leapfrog integration works better than just euler integration for such systems, especially when you try to render it in real time. Euler diverges faster than leapfrog in every simulation I've made. You like that, you fucking legend?. You may be interested in Zoom-Whirl orbits in GR, it sounds like it might be similar behavior! [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ujhy3nf5os](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ujhy3nf5os). Any chance you could share a demonstration of that? Sounds cool as.. Is there code available for this please. is that like python or something? Because I only know python.... Is there code available for this please. Ahh ok, I see that you are using glowscript .... Can u give some relation for that hole. Thanks for the answer. [deleted]. Do u think its like the intermediate axis theorem?. The Euler method is really only useful as a demonstration of numerical integration, pretty much any other scheme is always going to beat it.

If you want to be sure the orbit is periodic, try a symplectic integrator: these preserve phase-space volumes and have very nice conservation properties. You might even try Boris, which is designed for helical motion -- it's often used in particle trackers in plasma physics for this reason.. any symplectic method ought to do the trick. oh wow that's very nice! What I got was quite similar indeed. thanks! I'll do it surely. [deleted]. oh sorry I misunderstood, I used glowscript and python to make these. Oh thanks for that, that's very cool! Leapfrog integrator is also symplectic and works as fast as euler - so it's usually my go-to :D. Damn you, throwing out my numerical integration secrets like that :p. Idk why I'm surprised. If it's not python there's probably a package for it.. Ah...bring back memories of coding integration methods.. Half-time interval is dumb. Velocity Verlet or bust, dude.